*# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 1 November 2023

Present: Dan, Pete, Don, Nick, Robin, Tess, Jeffrey
Regrets: Amy

## [purpose limitation](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/366)

Nick: issue oepend by a reviewer - we never wrote out the general principle. I drafted some text ... most lawyers consider 2 parts - 1 - specify, 2 not using data for a purpose incompatible with that... 

Pete: all data?

Nick: inplicitly a mindset - implied purposes - for operating a site e.g. not getting into level of detail... or how explicit we need to be.

Don: I think it's good. one question that pops up - when an actor comes up with a new purpose - e.g. if a co launches a new service - and they want to use data for another purpose - what do they do?

Nick: i think that would be violating but you can go back and ask the user again...  Also controlled de-identified data can be used for another purpose... as long as not contrary to existing purposes... 

Robin: it looks good to me.

Dan: I like it...

Nick: Pete, what should web sites do with de regeur data?  
Pete: I also think it's probably fine to not include it.

Robin: not super-contraversial... 

Dan: Suggest we merge.

Nick: I asked jeffrey for a review... does change a sentence he wrote... we can change it back afterwards...

*agree to merge*

## [364](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/364)

Don: copy edit on section 2.5 -- this is the data rights... not a lot of text change... 

Nick: looks fine to me... 
Nick: privacy means having this right, not a statement of legal jurisdiction or a statement of human rights

Robin: not 100% on "a person has the right to erase information about themselves"... Having read the context I think it's OK.

Don: we aim to cover people's natural rights, not the content of particular laws or documents

Robin: the right to be forgotten and the right to erasure are different...

Dan: lgtm

*merged*

## [collective decision making](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/363)

Nick: new comments from Martin Thompson on the PR ... 

Robin: agree with Nick's proposal that we shouldn't block on this.. a bit worried it's [too much text... ]  I think we should probably refrain from ... intricate level of detail. Point at which we exceed our area of expertise...

Dan: already covered...?

Nick: i think at least his #1 and perhaps #4 are covered to some extent...  

Dan: yes agree I'm reluctant to add lots more text...

Robin: also Martin did ask us to be less technical and less brainy...

Dan: we need to balance...

Nick: we need to address his original issue that it was unclea and could be misread... that seems like a seperate issue...

Robin: I'm ok to merge - if martin wants to convince us that we need more text ... i welcome that...

*we agree to merge and keep #351 open*

## [Copy-edit the Collective Privacy section](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/365)

Nick: seems more readable...

*discussion of justified vs unjustified*

Don: a risk of saying "at a societal level" - a society might agree collectively to protect individual rights, and that would be justified - but a particular society might choose data processing practices that are unacceptable violations of the rights of some members

Pete: I feel anxious about this text... do you need to match all four of these criteria...

Jeffrey: Or

Pete: I think the 3rd bullet - asymetries of power - in some ways it seems its scraping down to techhnical decisions..

Robin: I hear you.. a lot of this comes down to the idea that you can protect peoples' privacy.. it shouldn't be an entirely individualistic framework... The relational governance says - yes sometimes everyone needs to agree and that creates a societal good. This touches on martin's point... we could try to dig into what makes collective decision making good in some places and bad in others... i'm reasonably confident saying "this exists" but not saying when it's good and bad. We could tweak to be clearer - these are examples of places where we may be able to ...

Robin: we have agreement that in some cases collective decision making will lead the better results. we don't have a rubric.

Robin: supported by discussions in that paper.. but not summarized...  I agree that that sentence is clumsy... maybe just drop.

*where to cite paper*

Don: an important point we should keep is: "It should be noted that [=processing=] can be unjust even if individuals remain anonymous"

*some more wordsmithing*

*discussion on ping section*

Dan: suggest cutting it

Pete: agree

Robin: I'm ok

Jeffrey: OK

Nick: OK.

*agree to merge*
