# TAG Privacy TF - 15 December 2021

Present: Amy, Robin, Dan, Nick Doty, Jeffrey, Tess

## Minutes

Welcoming Nick Doty to the task force as a PING co-chair.

### [Organization of the Documennt](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/89)

Dan: I like the notion that the UA plays this role. It's implicit in a lot of web arch documents, but good to note it.

Robin: there are two proposals for reorganisation. Jeffrey had made a proposal that is more thematic, grouping things by common families of meaning, which works but I had raised a question as to whether we want a structure that is more of a narrative. I tried to write something like that, following how I would explain it. The focus is on kicking off with why we even care about privacy. We tend to write about privacy as if it were obvious goal, something that is an evident good. I don't think that's obvious to everyone. Explaining why we want privacy and how it's about asymmetries of power provides a justification, and ties relatively well to the ethical principles and the priority of constituencies, there's something that anchors it well there. My outline was just to give an idea. Once we've established why we want it, we go through what it is without digging into boring definitions (which go in an appendix). We do want to specify the precise meanings, but out of the way. Then the question is about the how. One thing I think can work is to clearly separate what browsers play as part of the how and what part should be outside of that. There are things browsers can't do but it doesn't mean we shouldn't do something about it. We can have an opinion on that. That's the high level.

Jeffrey: struggling in my outline and in Robin's to .. document is about data privacy and private information, that's not all of privacy. There's the intrusiveness and annoyance and I don't really know how to capture that. Robin's outline about power relations is compelling, but include the other aspects of privacy? Nick and CHristine probably have the expertise there.

Nick: that was the comment I was going to make. There are lot of intersting thing sthat contextual integrity can do in terms of providing guidence, and a ot of information flows that have important impacts, but that would still be a narrow view even compared to what we consider privacy relevant things on the web. 

Robin: one question.. I don't disagree, definitely a focus, in part because it has been a political focus, but the question I have is that can this kind of outline work and we just expand the scope of privacy? Or do we need a different organisation of the document? Does a broader appraoch t privacy require a different outline?

Nick: you could have a broader view of privacy and still do the motivations and justifications and the how. I think there's been skepticism about whether we should even be doing that. one reason we haven't defined privacy earlier in w3c context is that the process of defining it can often narrow it and that's not actually that useful. But if we do want to do that I can see why it would be valuable, we would want to be open at each stage saying here are some important justifications for privacy that aren't he only ones; here are some important defintiions that apply to the web and these might not be the only ones.. ways to implement, might not be the only ones.

Robin: we can always extend that with more reasons and it could entirely be that asymmetries apply across a much broader scope of privacy. Initially one of the things we discussed was providing a conceptual toolbox for thinking about privacy more than a definition. Here's a bunch of ideas and tools how to be useful in debating the various complexities, but it doesn't mean they exhaust the topic. 

Nick: absolutely. That tends to be more useful. You want people to use it. What people often need is a list of how it might be applied instead of these thigns are privacy and these things aren't.

Jeffrey: we might have two why sections. There's why privacy for privacy in general, respecting peoples autonomy and how they want the world to terat them. And then about power dynamics. Intrusiveness is not about power.. just being annoyed. Data privacy is about this power dynamic.. maybe it fits in the section on data privacy, introduction, and we would also have sections on powerful capabilities and whatever other kind of areas of privacy we want to talk about

Dan: one of the things that came to mind with intrusiveness was the power imbalance. I think about push notifications... how they have been misused, hijacked by people and that has a negative impact on web usage because it creates this impression that everything coming from the web is junk and stuff that annoys me and takes my attention. That is a power imbalance because its people that are the technologists trying to figure out how to game the technology in order to get the most .. to use it to their advantage at the expense of peoples time and attention and not really caring about peoples wellbeing. That's a part of intrusiveness to me. I'm not saying everything is about power but it does feel like intrusiveness is part of the power asymmetry

Jeffrey: intrusions from powerful actors.. one that came up recently was google spamming you to switch to chrome... the website you visit nce and asks for push notifications and you say no that's intrusive but the website doesn' thave much power..

Dan: if you've been gamed to say yes.. if the tech that is shipped int he browser make it possible or attractive for the website to misuse that feature to gain the users permission so they can get those notifications on tot hat users device then it's a power imbalance it doesn't need to be a big actor in order for it to be a power imbalance. Some website.. is takng advantage of the fact that they're able to game the permissions to get access to more data or to interrupt them.

Nick: technically we've suggested the justification for privacy is orthogonal to the other dimension. We want privacy in order to mitigate the harms of power imbalanes will apply to many different concepts of privacy. Very obvious how it applies in the data collection case. I agree with Dan, I can see how it would also apply in the intrusion case but maybe it's not quite as obvious. Those can be separate. I think the the more imporatn thing is there might be other justifications besides power imbalance, and some might be more germain when it comes to intrusion or harassment, it's not just that we want to provide privacy becuase we want to limit abuses of power but also to enable human flourishing, in order for people to have thoughtful contact, to have private communications. Some power impact, but not the only reason.

Jeffrey: I don't want to limit it to power imbalances. We should include other justifications.

Robin: there are other justifications that work well with power imbalances. It's a two sided coin. When you talk about flourishing, when things are bad then you focus on removing power asymmetries because that's the first order of business. But that's not a good in itself. The reason you want to remove power asymmetries is to increase authonomy and the capability of people to self actualize, you can talk about all of that as directly tied. We don't have to say everyting is about power in rder to make that work. For the intrusiveness there is a notion of asymmetry there which does matter. Maybe of automation, or a cost asymmetry. If we make it super cheap for websites to bother you you carry the cost of them deciding they want to be in your notification. We are creating a form of asymmetry that is against users. It should be not costly for users to defend against people who want to be in their notifications, we should put the cost on who wants to acquire that capability.

Nick: did you have an alternative outline?

Jeffrey: the top comment is my rough outline. Breaks it down by topic. I'm not super tied to that. Could we just adopt Robin's outline with some addition of the other kinds of non data privacy? I think there are things mixed into how to impleent that ought to be what is private behaviour. Definition of identity. Not really a how to implement privacy. I don't have a concrete suggestion yet

Robin: Agree, identity comes across weird, we don't really define it, more the cross context recognition. More work to be done there to separate identity out there. 

Jeffrey: key of identity is that people present different identities in different contexts. We need to state that in the what is privacy section, not just how to do it.

Robin: aspects of web things that need to think about identity more clearly, like trust tokens. Proving you're human. Makin gan assertion about yourself, even if that's the only thing that someone learns

Dan: I don't think we want to go down that road.. a little bit of wording, we can't just not mention it.. but we should be explicit that we are not a primer on digital identity or make definitions. In the previous discussion about justifications for privacy, is the idea of privacy as linked to freedom of expression [article 19](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights) drawn out? That's not neessarily about power, althoug it is kind of because.. you should be able to sit down in a cafe with somebody and not have the feeling that there could be [microphones hidden in the salt shakers](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/jun/04/david-cameron-snoopers-charter-will-not-make-us-safer).. in the digital space that means digital privacy

[smart salt shakers]

Jeffrey: surveillence... missing other aspects of privacy. How to do an overaching framework that treats them as pieces as a whole rather than separate things that we just want to mention.

Nick: it might start as a list of things. I don't know that there's going to be an arrangement that doesn't involve just some listing

Robin: people have been trying to do things that are more than lists in this domain for 30/40 years. I'm not sure there's consensus that anyone has succeeded.

Jeffrey: we should be sure to have that list at the top level, not have Data Privacy and then the other stuff. Here are the aspects, and maybe data privacy is longer, but it shouldn't be the introduction.

Nick: both outline proposals have dedicated sections about UA. I get that but also want to think about how we're going to say multiple parties have a committment

Robin: having a user agent section is actually what says multiple partie shave a committment. We could probably be clearer. We're .. there's this privacy, these are things user agents can enforce, a whole bunch of other things they cannot that we still need to care about. There's been a tendancy in web standards to limit ourselves to what browsers can standardize. The idea is to capture what browsers cannot do

..[scribe crash].....

Jeffrey: having that structure in each of the sections makes sense. You have what is privacy and how to implement privacy. Your text is mostly about data privacy so treat that as a data privacy section. I like that sepearation. Principles vs what various actors need to do in order to make that happen. I think I see how to do that separation even in the intrusivenss section. We can say websites shouldn't ask for push notifications and browsers should enforce that in such and such a way. I like that structure

Dan: along with more expanded intro text as Robin has written but also additional stuff in why privacy that talks about other aspects of privacy besides data.

Robin: taking about having the why in what you have as ethical data user.. can work but I'd want it t happen much earlier in the document

Jeffrey: there might be two why sections. Why privacy in general, and some stuff specific to data use. Power imbalance is important to privacy in general. Anything specific to data use would go in that section. 

Robin: some of what you currently have under ethical data use would go to the general why thing

Jeffrey: sure

Robin: consent is broader than data for example

Jeffrey: yep

Dan: who is going to make that PR?

Jeffrey: I could.. I'd only do outlines for the Whys nd not actually write that text. People can fill in the sections.

Robin: don't sweat filling out .. anything you don't feel like filling out. Better to get a rough outline done now. Then I'm happy to start adding the Whys.


