# Privacy Task Force Call 21 July 2021

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/ + https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pulls



## Editorial pass through document

Dan: in our last call we identified that we need to do an editorial run to normalise tone of voice and make it consistent with TAG design principles and security and privacy questionnaire. 

Christine: I started going through and started noting suggestions for possible changes. What's the best way? PR?

Dan: *nods*

Christine: if you're going to do an editorial run through one option might be to send you stuff?

Robin: the odds of conflict are relatively low unless you're doing a massive edit. If someone does a massive edit we should probably be hands off. But if it's changing things here and there

Jeffrey: Tess likes a style where every clause is on its own line?

Robine: someone owuld have to do that once, then everyone can edit

Dan: I don't intend to do that, just minor changes and fixes. I think we're not at the phase where somebody is doing a massive edit like that. Appropriate for us all to be making PRs. Marking them as editorial etc. Then we can merge those and if there are merge conflicts probably there will be obvious resolutions.

Christine: suppose I had an idea of a different way to write something, substantive, better first to flag it as an issue? Eg. rewrite the abstract - better as an issue? 

Dan: I think it would

Jeffrey: if you already have text, do it as a PR, we can discuss there. If you just have an idea don't wait for text, dump ideas in issue and we can all help think of text

Christine: I might do a blend of the two..

Robin: separate editorial suggestions from substantive suggestions. Anything purely editorial the editors can merge without having to discuss it. That way we can streamline the process. Anything as substance, a separate PR.

Dan: [updates labels]. Label a lot. Just add new labels.

Dan: there's been some discussion on the AC mailing list.. one thing is that there's no document that lays out what privacy is.. I've resisted posting to say we are working on it.. Robin posted a huge essay..

Robin: mentioned that TAG and PING are thinking about it..

Dan: the right time to send a note to the AC list is when we have done some additional editorial work and merged a few of these PRs. Moving us towards consensus. Interesting to see there is a need for this and it'll have an impact.

Robin: after posting that i got a lot of direct responses. Whether people agree or not, having the links to these discussions and resources was helpful. SOmething to keep in mind - people want to do their homework on this, just don't know where to start.

## Issues

### [Default privacy boundary](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/1)

Jeffrey: was reading through the notes. It seems like we may understand different things about what it would mean to use the orign as the default privacy boundary. If we use the origin as the privacy boundary that means that if - a big company acquriing several subdivisions - if the big company puts them at one.bigcompany.com and two.bigcompany.com if the origin is the privacy boundary those cannot communicate without users approval, but if site is the privacy boundary they can

Dan: that brings to mind the example of facebook and instagram. I think that in that case you .. facebook has facebook.com and instagram is on instagram.com, those are different sites

Jeffrey: they cannot communicate by default

Dan: if a company buys another, previous users of that service users might have an expectation of privacy wrt to the other entity. There's some discussion in Germany around facebook and whatsapp about disallowing data sharing between the two orgs because of regulatory that underscored that possible need.. I know we're not talking about regulatory here.. 

Robin: there is a link .. we need to consider policy a little bit.. there is discourse around it and i'ts hard to disentangle. A topic of common discussion these day is... a join report from UK authorities.. everyone laughed because everyone things it agrees but that's not possible given different positions. What the report said is that the first party / third party distinction is not very helpful because if you're a big companya nd you acquire a lot then you can do massive data sharing whereas other companies trying to compete will not be allowed to share. It's anticompetitive and antiprivacy at the same time. People who want broad data sharing say of course you can't restrict things to first party.. people who care about privacy say you have to prevent first party from sharing with itself becuase it's too big. This doesn't lead to a solution... that is the framing that we're struggling with, and that they're struggling with on the policy side.

Christine: back to first principles.. might be helpful to revisit what is the practical effect of the privacy boundary? Jeffrey has said in the issue would roughly be the point at which the user rather than the page needs to approve communication. My question is why does the privacy boundary matter/ What is the affect of being within and without the boundary? that will help answer the question of where it is. I'm unclear why we're worrying about the privacy boundary.

Jeffrey: you've described my understanding of what a privacy boundary means. THe security boundary is where interferance is disallowed unless the page author opts in. Privacy is commnication is disallowed unless th euser says it is allowed. There's always going to be a way for a big company to move things inside the privacy boundary, inside its own privacy boundary. If we say th eorigin is the privacy boundary they'll just use different paths for different services. The reason I filed the issue is because the PSL which we've been using to define sites has been groaning under the weight of the load.. we need to decide either to fund it or pick a different mechanism. Someone needs to make a decision about this. This seems like the best place to do that. 

Christine: answers the question, I understand the rationale from security.. it's tricky to translate that concept to privacy because privacy is not binary. What you're talking about is a permission boundary or a consent boundary.. because you're inside the boundary doesn't mean you can do everything. You might be able to collect this data but not that data. Collect it but not sell it. That's my dilemma

Jeffrey: i come at this from a security standpoint.. thinking about user ID transfer between entities. Places browsers can put technical measuers in place. Doesn't mean we can't also put regulatory measures in place to restrict use of data, and guidelines. We should separate those two, I agree. 

Dan: maybe that means we need to be careful about defining privacy boundary if we do use that term

Pete: profile being privacy boundary? might be time to make that explicit. Private sessions, things like that. Not usually called out in specs, but an implicit privacy boundary. Additioanl privacy boundaries discussed elsewhere int he platform. isLoggedIn in privacy cg - auth session boundary. Inutitively appealing but difficult in practice. Third is we should be extremely careful and say it's a floor not a ceiling. There are lots of things we'd like to make difficult on the web that wouldn't align perfectly. Bad if this document can say it isn't violating the privacy boundary so it's out of scope.. fingerprinting, cookie cleaning, etc..

Robin: we're not going to be able to solve all of this by technical means. Might be interesting.. Jonathan said something I agree with.. even if you have a clear security boundary and you're doing the perfect binary security thing, people still get scammed by fine content written in a paragraph.. you never get perfect security from technical means, same with privacy. Maybe we need to be clear in separating the two. Ine EU context separate data protection from privacy. Data protection boundaries vs privacy considerations. We could put it off - define first/third party privacy boundary or data protection boundary, that are technically enforceable, and principles for other boundaries that aren't encorced technically, and encourage policy makers to use the same principles where they make sense

Sam: caveat - don't want to boil oceans - but... worry about DNS being part of the boundary here. Imagining me creating an A record for doubleclick.samweiler.com, all of a sudden bringing doubleclick within my name based boundary..

Dan: take what you mean.. I feel strongly about this origin thing. Partially becuase so many other things in the web platform are keyed on it. We're not .. we need to keep in mind that we have all these tools that are reliant on the origin. I get antsy when people start to talk about changing the scope of origin, or see things that might weaken origin. Service worker, permissions, lots of things keyed off origin. If we emphasise the use of origin we can take advantage of those things. We strengthen th use of thse controls as a way to safeguard user privacy. We have to take an architectural approach - some things we can change, some things we can't

Sam: is that a broken enough one?

Jeffrey: any privacy domain is a set of origins.. we would never split an origin into two pieces.. havin ga security boundary that doesn't match the privacy boundaries doesn't make a lot of sense. Origins are the base of this.. what origins do we put togethe rin a domain that can share information. When we look at that kind of use of DNS system we have to ask why people ar edriven to do it? what are they actually tring to do? why is this the easiest way to get whta they want? Clearly privacy harms, leaks cookies, but we should be thinking about how to give the domain owner what they actually want in a way that doesn't have the privacy harms (assuming it's not a privacy harm that they want)

Dan: it could be appropriate if we think something is bad practice, right now, eg. around the use of a records or cnames that is outside of our scope we can still point it out and say this stuf fhappens and it's a bad idea becuase it breaks the assumptions that are encoded into this document. 

Robin: I don't think we can solve the DNS problem.. what's to prevent people from proxying through their own server without it being visible. Agree with Jeffrey.. can push it further down, we need to give people a way of doing it

Dan: more succinct definition of 'privacy boundary' if we're going to use that term. We could come to consensus on that right now on the question of do we want to use that term. We need to then somehow define privacy boundary in temrs of origin rather than defining it as origin. Is that what you're saying?

Jeffrey: I was stumbling across 'privacy domain' as a better term. Domain is a set of origins.. boundary goes around the domain.. domain is itself overloaded.. Christine and Pete had other things that go into a privacy boundary.. I'd like to get that written down. Which things we can enforce technically? That's the stuff I"m trying to talk about here.

## [Device owners](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/2)

Robin: no further discussion since last call.. assigned to Jeffrey. Agred it would be good to have but not straightforward. Next step is probably suggesting text

Jeffrey: that's my plan

## [Clarify topics in doc](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/7)

Dan: no action since last time.  Should still be a threat model doc in PING. But need to further clarify. Keep it open.

Peter: sounds like it's poorly named.. if it's going to be a list of examples fo rhow to design specs .. need to rename or have some doc that explains what's going on... doesn't sound like that's toing to be an abstract model.. sounds like that is what this doc is

Jeffrey: my idea of that doc is that it's the more technical details of what to look for in a privacy review to enforce the principles in thsi task force's document. What spec authors should be aiming at. How to apply th eprinciples.

Dan: may be more of a discussion to have in PING than here. 

Pete: wrote here becuase if we're sucking the model part out of that doc an dputtin git here it's relevant

Dan: I think that is what we're doing.

Pete: that sounds like security and privacy quesitonnaire.. not technical but a DIY guide to do specs in alignment with other docs..

Christine: yes, maybe in future we might attach the privacy threat model to the questionnaire. Here are examples of what to look for and how to mitigate threats.

Jeffrey: we often ahve questions of how close to the line can a spec get.. sometimes there's places where if you can poke at something for long enough you can violate someone's privacy. We need some kind of line to say this is how long the attacker needs to be able to poke at it to accomplish their goal. Eg. get the user to visit 50 times in a month. Feature authors can tune knobs inside the proposal to achieve that boundary without completely throwing away the proposal. that belings more in a threat model doc than this grou's principles. the part that is stil there is what do you have to do to transfer an ID between sites. You need to be able to get the user to navigate in certain ways and then you can correlate logs on the backend and then you can identify that this particular user is the sam user on this other site. That detail doesn't belong in a principles doc but should be written down.

[Expand related docs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/9)

Dan: noted it might be a dup of 7.. actually I don't think it is. 

[Describe paradigms for data use](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/11)

Dan: has a long response from Robin..

Jeffrey: to some extent Robin's doc is about this. 

Robin: any part of this you find useful I'm happy to put in the document. Happy to own this issue. Presuming Jeffrey found the response useful. I can see what's not covered and move it over.

Wendy: how much do you want to use that issue to add others. There are plenty of paradigms...

Jeffrey: I think it would be useful to list a lot, including ones we reject. People will be coming to this doc from all sorts of assumptions and contexts

Robin: agree in general. I would like to have a limit around that in terms of which.. what's reasonable.. people have said all sorts of things and you can find references for pretty much anything. But let's not review all of them.

Wendy: not saying it should contian everything.. the right to be let alone, privacy as personality... it could be either as a reference point of things that might be invoked in some of the arguments in that case or maybe just pointers to where those debates are taking places. Shorthands for "but that's not what we're doing". 

Robin: good point. Right to be let alone is an easy one to process.. good idea to also cover.. I haven't included personality and dignitarian stuff.. it's important to cover here because it's related to gdpr and a lot of enforcement, at least in germany. Can work that in.

Dan: [labels]

[TAG style guide](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/15)

Dan: said I'd do..

[Latest published](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/16)

Dan: editorial

[How idealistic can we be](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/21)

Christine: I would push us to do as Pete says - this is not .. we're not going to lowest common denominator.. we should try to be a sproactive as we can be. Imagine a different set of stakeholders getting together to agree privacy principles for the industry. Push not to do principles of current practice, but to set up a higher standard. Even if everyone is not there yet to push them to that. We should do the equivalent here.

Robin: There are things we will never be able to implement and fully enfoce. I'd like to be idealistic in principles an dthen describe how that maps to what's implementable. It ties back to what we were saying in the earlier discussion about the boundaries. We can if we have clear pinciples that may be as idealistic as they can get, we can translate some to technical requiremenets and policy makers can translate some o fthat to policy. If they use the same principles we'll have something that doesn't suck when tech meets policy which would be nice I would encourage a tendancy towards idealism even if we can't move all of the web to that because some isn't implementable.

Jeffrey: super idealistic.. if we allow ourselves to go past what we can implement we risk being ignored. Also losing useful .. because we've set the bar super high for new things when the old things might never catch up. We should build things and fix what's broken.. Something we can't fix in a reasonable amount of time, then we shouldn't hold up new things to a bar we can't get to with old things. Should not be an impossible goal which would just get the TAG ignored.

Dan: should be something people can implement and is useful. Has to have pragmatism - doesn't mean we can't exercise both. False dichotomy to say we're idealistic or pragmatic. Balance there. We already talked about DNS as a problematic dependency but out of scope to fix. We could have additioanl things - an appendix with issues that have cropped up that were out of scope but less than ideal from a privacy perspective. Further work recommended.

Robin: wonder if it's productive to have this conversation in the abstract. It's possible we're all in agreement and just see ideas of what something unrealistically unrealistic might be like principles with notes about what's actually implementable.. not sure we're in that much disagreement. I'd like to propose that whenever we intro something in the doc that we are open to having the discussiona bout whether it's pragmatic/useful/realistic/worth documenting. Then we can work on concrete things. Abstract discussion... we're not agreeing or disagreeing.

Jeffrey: we don't need to drive this to a firm conclusion. Agree on wording about philosophical discussion. Just conscious of it. We'll have different people pulling in different directions. Be aware we're looking for a midpoint.

Dan: having a good idea of the user base, the readership of this doc and how we expect it to be used is where I'm at on this. It should inform the discussion. [leaves comment]

Wendy: principles should be ideals people can recognise. times they need to be balanced with other values including acheivability.

Dan: right

Jeffrey: that's a plausable thing to divide between this doc and PING threat model doc. Here are the idealistic principles an dPING is in charge of figuring out the tradeoffs and what turned out  not to be practical so it's okay to violate

Wendy: agree we don't want to be absolutist, and set up principles that are unachievable and cause people to ignore them.

Dan: leave this open? Don't know if there's much we can do. Close as discussed?

Jeffrey: that's fine, this discussion accomplished what i hoped to accomplish
