# Privacy Taskforce Minutes 

Present: Jonathan, Christine, Wendy, Sam, Jeffrey, Tess, Amy, Peter, Dan


## Where do we stand? Status?

Tess: i think we are still going through issues and bringing these documents together...

Sam: The doc is in a public repo. People can find who's contributed by looking there. But the document doesn't yet reflect the consensus of the task force because we haven't gotten all the way through it, and while we will be seeking public comment later, we're not seeking it right now.

Sam will make a comment tomorrow at the PING meeting.

## [PR Refine the cross-context recognition threats now that the #identity section defines the concept](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/40)

Jeffrey: not in a checkinable state right now but the basic idea is the identity section got updated so this should refer to it...

... i was focusing on what privacy-xx browsers could prevent... sites can cause a privacy harm if the user changes context and the site continues to identify it's the same person... not sure how to describe that situation...  Also expanded the cross-site recognition section... 

Christine: on privacy harm - i was looking at it from the perspective herm in general rather than whta browsers can do about it.. there can be a privacy harm even if the user doesn't change partitions... if user using extensions or partitioning or choosing no/disallow or ueing VPN.. 2nd point - given that privacy thret model still a work in progress probably not have as a dependency.

Dan: i agree i feel 


like the outlines of the threat model.. we have discussed osme of the threat model document being in this doc. Enough of the outlien should be in here that we don't need to reference the other document. 

Jeffrey: the particular issue with cross-site tracking - there are way sto transfer user ID between sites that I think we cannot prevent. The privacy threat model goe sinto those details. The most obvious one is if you navigate from one site to another and both sites record the time it identifies you. I don't think browsers can prevent that from happening. I don't know a principle that we coudl write down that says how to distinguish the things we can't technically prevent from the stuff we do want to technically prevent ?? navigational tracking work .. it' sa difficult principle to apply

Wendy: we may have some relatively absolute principles and the applied principles and 'what can we do' as it can evolve from where we are now will be necessarily a subset of what all of the things that are privacy relevant. Fair to acknowledge that users may have some privacy interests that we are not yet able to address and shouldn't promise with half measures

Pete: text that says "cookies and storage" and it might be easier to refer to the storage spec

Jeffrey: I will look for the technical term.

Jeffrey: in order to remove the reference to the privacy threat model ... specifications .. cross site recognition about the web as a whole or something like that

Christine: ... articulation to that principle or what the answer is but is it possible to say at a minimum do x

Jeffrey: the details of x ar ethe reason I linked to the privacy threat model

Christine: I'd like to clear up my preference would be to say what the privacy harm sare at large but in terms of principles we're focussing on those we can fix. I worry that if we say a privacy harm is x and we deal with that and there are other privacy harms that go unstated we're being too narrow

Jeffrey: question of howh to reference the privacy threat model. We focus this document on saying here are the privacy harms then list the principles about browser behaviour

Tess: Broadly sounds great. The bit that worried me - we need to do what we can without breaking the web. I'm here for that caveat, compat is the game.. but I'm worried about what people might read into a phrase like that. What comes to mind is that someone might interpret 'break the web' as inconvenience a business model without actually causing a technical incompatibility. I think what we mean is technical compatibility with websites, I don't think we mean arbitrarily preserving business models that may or may not exist on the web. The language in the document about breaking the web makes it clear it's about technical compat and not economic feasibility or something

Jeffrey: i didn't constrain it it to this will break a couple of websites.. included the possibility that websites may need to change.. fundamental to the web.. only thing we can't prevent is ... site redirects.. and that seems fundamental to the web even if we break a bunch and make people change their code

Dan: this discussion si making me less sure that we are making the right deciision by removing the link. I wonder whether we should think about importing some of the material from privacy threat model? Maybe we got the boundary wrong. We started off thinking ome material belongs in privacy threat model and some belongs in this. Is this an example of something that belongs in this document? I don't think it's going to cause enormous problems if we link to another doc even if that doc is not further along in status. 

Jeffrey: ... write something weak and add an issue saying figure out how to strengthen this possibly using text from the privacy threat model

Dan: agree, resolve the issue and land a PR, then add some text with Tess and Christine's viewpoints taken into account and see what additional stuff we can bring in from privacy threat model to bolster it, leave a placeholder

## [PR: Unwanted profiling](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/38)

Christine: I think we landed on unexpected profiling as the descriptor, did I remember correctly?

... then my suggestion is perhaps this should be ?? between 3.1 and 3.2

Dan: We did zero in on unexpected or unintentional

Christine: i prefer unexpected because .. we want this from the perspective of the user. Pete and I merged text together, I looked again and realised that we didn't have the privacy harms sentence in this we had in the others so I thougth we should say something like privacy harm occurs if a user does not wish to be recognised, identified, profiled or singled out when they visit a site for the first time (and perhaps the only time). I put some notes.. 

Dan: I can think of another reason why a user might want to be identified.. an ecommerce reason, you go to a website and add a book to a basket, you go somewhere else, and then you come back to the site and probably frustrated if your basket is not full of that book

Christine: that's same-site

Pete: this is all behind unintentionality. If the substance of [Christine's comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/38#issuecomment-909728474) is good we can put it in and get it merged.

Dan: confusing because if you're talking about a case of online banking that usually doesn't involve multiple sites.

Christine: what Im trying to get at.. you've opened up your browser and go to one website and not be identified.. not same-site recognition or cross-site recognition, I don't want to be profiled... acknowledging the case where users do want to be profiled/recognised/identified..

Jeffrey: .. profiling and identification... definitiion of profiling is not about identifying them or singling them out, it's about learning other things about them from what they did on the site. We don't need this section to address users who want to be identified because profiling is not identification. Current text catches learning too much about someone or an unexpected ... Sherlock Holmes invading privacy by deducing more than anyone expects... when a site learns more about you than you expected it to learn by your interaction that's a privacy harm. Not really a privacy harm that a web browser can do much about

Pete: I agree with Jeffrey until the very last clause. I take your main point that there's a fair amount of text in this section trying to distinguish this harm from identification, we should do another pass to make sure we keep distinguishing

Christine: I don't knwo whether browsers can do anything about it but i certainly think w3c specs can ... leaking data about assistive technologies would be ... in specs

Pete: certainly we should take care to not make it worse

Jeffrey: the furry exmaple probably falls into sensitive information because sexual preferences are sensitive

Pete: there are people who would say that it's not a sexual preference, exactly why I chose that example

Jeffrey: we might find something that is more obviously distinct from a sensitive information

Dan: so... further work to do on this PR.



## Powerful APIs

Dan: Alex Russell brought up APIs that provide enough information to identify someone in one use, vs ones that take several uses.

Jeffrey: The privacy threat model is a good place to define thresholds (e.g. "you have to call this API at least 10 times over 2 months to get enough information to fingerprint someone"), but we should identify the distinction here.

Dan: New issue. #41

## [Issue: fiduciary](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/36)

Tess: we should talk about this when Robin is on. Substance of this section is good I Just think a lot of companies which employ lawyers probably won't be happy with the current wording. We can probably tweak it.

## [PR: singling out and profiling](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/37)

Sam: I like the identification change, less convinced on profiling

Jeffrey: "Profiling" is text Christine suggested in an [issue](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/27)

Dan: looks good to me as a starting place

Sam: Wehn I look at some of the things in these earlier PRs that we talked about today, particularly in 2.1 people and data where we define personal data.. looks like we're talking about processing. I'm not sure why we need to define a word profiling for this purpose here.

Christine: perhaps profiling is the inference evaluation .. get rid of the processing. 

Sam: not sure how we use it

Dan: we use the word profiling .. worth defining so we understand the different definition between profiling and identification. I think this would be very valuable for spec developers who might unintentionally use these words interchangeably. We even start to use them interchangeably in our previous discussion. From the perspective of giving spec developers a conceptual framework to work on and a way to think about the problem I think we do need to define profiling

Sam: fine

Christine: because we imported most of these concepts directly from ?? it uses the word individual and previous weeks ago we had a discussion about using the word .. consistency.

Jeffrey: can do a pass through this and replace individual with person as a separate PR. And call out in the definition of person that this is different from the legal definition of person

Sam: we also use the word profile with regard to browser profile. Clarify?

Jeffrey: We might. Consistently use 'browser profile', the two-word phrase, over profiles. Makes sense to do in this PR. It's only like two places. I will make the change.

## [PR: define party](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/32)

Jeffrey: "A party is a person or legal entity that is legally accountable for its use of data" ?

Christine: ... data controller.. need to think

Dan: think we should start with legal entity
