# Privacy TF Meeting Minutes

11 Aug 2021

Present: Dan, Tess, Christine, Jonathan, Pete, Robin, Sam, Wendy, Amy
Scribe: Amy
Chair: Dan

--

## [Definitions](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/26) 

*Related to [Definitions](https://w3ctag.github.io/privacy-principles/#definitions) section od document.*

**Vulnerable People**

Robin: didn't intend to make it about consent, that's a holdover from a gdpr focussed document, where you cannot claim consent if someone is vulnerable but doesn'tmean vulnerability is defined by consent ,mor eabout asymmetries of power, rewriting that.

Dan: makes sense

Christine: the asymmetries of power extends beyind the notion of consent to the point where vulnerable people may be exposed ot greater or more severe privacy risks than others

Robin: yes, trying to see if I captured this, will add as a note

**Party**
 
Robin: accountability instead of ownership.. it's a good idea [PR32](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/32)

Christine: where did we land with what is first party? is first party only one legal entity, or first party a set of entities?

Robin: not making a set of legal entities

Christine: great

Tess: what about the legal entity that is Apple in Luxembourg that is iTunes which is owned by the company Apple.. or the Irish companies owned by Apple...

Dan: I think these are different parties. When it comes to data laws.. eg. in Germany the [court ruled](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/05/11/facebook-has-been-told-to-stop-processing-german-whatsapp-data-.html) that whatsapp and facebook are different parties. 

Tess: I think that's fine. It's tricky later in this sentence it says "is readily evident to the user". Apple subsidiaries .. it's pretty obvious...

Robin: that's why we're removing this. Initially that came from DNT where if you had joint branding on a website they were jointly the first party. Christin'es push back was if you have a joint venture yu'd have a legal structure behind it and that would be the first party. So going to remove the thing about the user, it's always been fuzzy, whether it's ever clear to users who knows. We discussed but I haven't made the PR yet.

Tess: makes sense

Dan: will we address the point that some have made that some language of a UK authority found the designation of parties harmful?

Robin: some context.. the joint ICO-CMA report on this did say the first party/thidr party distinction is not always helpful (not harmful). One thing problematic with that report is everyone loved it which tells you how clear it was. What they wrote is not what James inferred. THey do so we should be careful with first/third party distinctions in a competition context. If you have two entities sharing data that sholud not be any worse than the same company sharing with another service of its own so you shouldn't be encouraging integration over unintengrated sharing. James draws from that that it sholud be fine to share data with anyone. i draw from that that yo shouldn't be able to share data with your own subsidiaries if they're running a differnt service. Difficult ot address that without going into competition situations. We could use contextual integrity

Tess: I wrote a [blog post](https://tess.oconnor.cx/2020/10/parties) last year before tpac about the terms first party and third party.. I'm coming at it from the opposite side as James.. my point at the time was that those are colloquial terms that have an historical legal meaing and lawas in different juristictions have defined them differently. What we should be doing in specifications is is talking out things in tyerms of same site same origin, cross site, cross origin... specifically about specifications.. this task force is for a document that could be useful both for spec authors and for policy makers, regulators etc. so we could have shared vocabulary. We do have to use these terms even though I think they're problematic in specs. They are the cloest thing we have in this space. If we come up with understanding here about what htye mean that's for the best

Dan: could we call that out specifically? and say the term party is problematic becuase of this. In general the way to think about this is in terms of same site etc? 

Tess: I'd be happy with that. I don't think we should drop 'party' but I'd like to have guideance

Dan: my point was if we can do something in this document that can address that issue that has been raised that can be helpful

Sam: why can't we use same site / same origin in this doc?

Tess: when we're talking about technical things.. we have to serve as a bridge

Robin: the issue with same site is that cnames are same site but third parties .. different service providers are first party in certain legal regimes.. that's where the origin boundaries don't work in the same way as the data flows

Christine: from a privacy perspective just because an entity is a first party does not mean they have carte blanche. making sure it's clear the distinctiosn we're making, whatever words, what we're focussed on is ensuring privacy protections for the natural person irrespective of whether it's first, third, or some other words. 

Robin: the intent in defining first and third parties was to anchor a definition but it doesn't mean it's implied that first party is good. 

**First Party**

Christine: examples where the user does not intend to interact with the first party - would it be helpful to add some xamples of where the user does intend to interact - the 2 sides...

Robin: yes it would make things clearer. Please provide examples.

Jonathan: do we mean redirect tracking - for the bad case.

**Serive Provider / Data Processor**

Christine : why does the data processor who's processing data on behalf of rhe first party be need to treated as a firs party because under GDPR like things they are treated as seperate parties.

Robin: depends on whether we see this as a question of where data sits or who is accountable for it. prefer working from accountability.. my experience in building big company websites is it's increasingly difficult not to rely on some other party at some point. Forget about trackers and js injection.. even just a CDN.. when you go to the NYT are you considered tracked by fastly or your data is being shared with fastly at the same time? I tend to see them as infrastructure providers that we have a contract with so they don't do anything else with the data. from a data protection / security standoint they have the means to see the data but I don't think it has the same privacy properties as eg. ads being served where they have the right to take the data and do other thing swith it

Dan: say a government was trying to get information abotu what NYT articles somebody had read, they could have a court order to get that information from NYT or they could get that information from fastly. So in that case those are two separate entities that both have access to that information. That's not a wholly fictitious example, there have been plenty of examples of governments... 

Robin: government interception is something we care a lot about. In fastly's case they only keep the data in memory and flush it, they don't have it in any identifiable form. Except very specific periods of high intensity traffic. But to take the case of a third party tracker, the question is at some point either you're concerned about it being the same country.. same juristiction.. and there has been any kind of data export, normally you'd expect that contract to apply similar rules such that if that company receives any coercian to release the data if it's NYT data we'd be looped in and have a hand in defending that data. If the data is being exported that is a differnet issue. INAL but my lawyer friends have a lot of things to say about data exports and it gets confusing very fast. 

Christine: we've heard these terms first party and third party a lot... thinking aloud... any precedent for second party? Would fastly be a second party?

Robin: two things.. I like the idea to come up with a better typology.. there's the point to be made that a provider is in some parts similar to the first party but also that it does have different data protection properties than having everything with the firs tparty. Second party is a term of art, as is fourth party and zeroth party.. second party data is say samsung wants to run an ad on NYT and they give us their user list and we match it with our user list and we target those people, that is second party data. Why? Marketers don't understand that third party is not number three

Tess: the origins of these terms in contract law (IANL) first and second are the two parties in the contract.. first and third party is the people in the contract and the people not.

Christine: trying to get us to think differently. there are two legal entities, some of the things they're doing together to provide a service ot the natural person, and some things they're not

Robin: let's forget about second party.. I like your idea of a new typology

Dan: we could minimise the use of first party and second party and still talk about parties, and say this is commonly called the first party .. here's what we mean with xyz to be clear. It is very unclear. Value of this doc is to bring clarity.

Robin: this definition is going to be richer and probably expand. Under GDPR a processor is a lot less accountable than a controller. We could have something more subtle.

**Purpose**

Christine: Robin called out that purpose needs to be specific.. if you're going to call out one characteristics of purpose why aren't we calling out other important characteristics of purpose thatw e'd like people who are using individuals' personal data to apply. Either we say purpose and don't have chracateristics, or we do have some characteristics beyond specific

Robin: we might want something mor ethan specific but I'd like to separate the definition fo what a purpose is from normative requirements that we might want to place on purposes. I think making it specific is about its not a puprose if it's maybe I'll do something with it some day.. that's nto a purpose. Whereas that it's reasonable is that I'd like people to use my data in ways that are reasonable rather than unreasonable, but it's not part of the definition of purpose. If you want to use my data to eat kittens it's not reasonable ill a purpose. It might not be fair and is unnecessarily cruel but it's still a purpose. If I'm collecting your data because I don't know that's not a purpose. Maybe there's a way to tread that line?

Christine: I see what you're getting at. I wasn't thinking of the extreme exmaple where you can't discern a purpose. Spectrum between you can't discern a purpose and a purpose that is specific. I can see your argument that to be a genuine purpose it must be specific. I was putting it in the same category as reasonable and fair but I can see why you're arguing that it's different and you don't get to the threshold of purpose without being specific. I hope we can put reaosnable and fair somewhere.

Robin: maybe we can find something like "appropriate purpose" or something like that would capture that.

Dan: doesn't this tie into the stated purpose? When you state purpose you can't use data in another way because you told me what the purpose was

Christine: many privacy and data proection laws won't allow you to have an unfair or unreasonable purpose or an unnecessary purpose. It's not enough to have a stated purpose.

Dan: the issue is not with parties using data outside of the purpose to which it's mean tto be used, the issue is to do with unreasonable purposes

Robin: unspecified purpose isn't a purpose. Unfair purpose is still a purpose. I'll try to think of a way of capturing reasonable and fair.

## [Contentious Issue on Context](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/28)

Pete: definitions in the top chunk of doc - context - different browsers might define context in different ways. 

Robin: in PR28 - bottom as part of the review.

Robin: Jeffrey said I'm happy to mark it as contentious...

Robin: my perspective: if there's something that there's strong disagreement about then it's worth capturing. If we include it as matter of fact then it's as if it were decided. If we don't include it then also bad.

Tess: agree with you for now - the document is at an early stage.  It makes sense for the doc to be messy - and for peoeple to understand what point of disagreement is. The end goal is something coherent. 

Pete: sounds good to me.  I think it shouldn't be in the def section.

Robin: I agree with tess about the final state. But for now it's good to have the note.

Dan: [+1]. It's maybe not that level of disagreement. Is there a way to word this definition that can allow for a browser to.. different browsers are going to set privacy boundaries at different locations, or adjust the levers of privacy according to what their product strategy is. I don't think this document is trying to impose one privacy regime on every browser. It is trying to improve the state overall of all browsers, but there should still be opportunity for different browsers to have different opinions 

Jonathan: if we allow for this thin wedge to be added, it could widen over time, almost as if we're sanctioning first party sets

Dan: agreed

Jonathan: if anything it's widening the privacy boundary, not an improvement

Dan: I personally agree, the poeple who work on FPS may see it another way

Jonathan: prefer contentious things to have this disclaimer as we're discussing. We can always come back to an issue

Pete: still agreeing. At least worth not letting this stick around for 6 months is nominally the TAG thought FPS was below the floor... does seem like we're agreeing on the floor

Dan: maybe the way we talk about privacy in here should inform the way FPS talks about their thing. Different kind of thing to talk about several things as a first party vs a collection of first parties

## PRs

### [Rewrite the abstract to align with the style guide](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/29)

Christine: you say definitions for privacy.. I think that's right.. we're talking about definitions in the web context surrounding privacy rather than a definition of privacy. We're not defining privacy, but defining what privacy means in the context of what we're writing about

Robin: correct

Dan: should we uncapitalise Web?

Tess: the w3c styleguide.. it's very clear that in phrases like website or webpage lower case unless it's beginning of sentence.  But if you're talking about The Web as a noun, capitalised or lowercase, w3c does not take an official stance

Robin: I tend to use uppercase if it's The Web, lowercase if it's ... I don't care

Dan: happy either way... Let's merge this.

Christine: trying to stay away from using the word users?

Robin: we talked about it and were fuzzy on it..?

Jonathan: individuals?

Dan: it is okay to say users of the web. That's fine. What we're trying to do overall in the TAG is to minimise the use of the term users as a placaeholder for people. To me this is fine. 
