#  TAG Privacy Task Force Minutes - 29 September 2021

Present: Dan, Jeffrey, Amy, Don, Robin, Christine, 

Regrets: 

## Minutes

### [add initial draft of section on unexpected profiling, fixes #27](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/38)

Dan: changes unwanted to unexpected and adds a section

Jeffrey: a new thought.. when we talk about unexpected profling sometimes it's about remembering things that the user didn't expect to be remembered but the site new them at one point

Robin: and sometimes it's profiling in general

Jeffrey: inference

Robin: seems to be mixing two things, I wonder if it might make sense to have profiling being about inferences and remembering things being more about recognition?

Jeffrey: recognition also .. a site recognises you as the same user.. may intend it to recognise you as the same user but not remember all 50 things you bought last year

Robin: retention

Dan: [leaves comment asking if theire's a citation we can use for loss of agency]

Don: interesting user expectation work in the twitter terms of service for using login with twitter. What they say is that if you log somebody in with twitter you need to grab their twitter profile picture and put that on the page so to generalise it's if you have the user do something that shares a piece of identifying information about themselves then that has to be clear to the user. I'm trying to look at this from the pov of someoen who might say oh the user clicked a make the dialog box go away to read the article button six months ago, therefore they're fine with the following changes described at the bottom of that policy. It'd be good to have something in there on when a site is able to learn attributes or characteristics about a person the site visitor reasonably could not aniticipate the site would be able to learn given the actions they've taken to share. Does that make sense?

Jeffrey: two different things. If the twitter login thing is about the reminding the user what they've shared, it's about doing that with browser permissions also. if you granted a permission a long time ago, see that it's granted periodocially as a tag on the tab or something. Twitter profile pic is a way of doing that. there is a way to incorporate that.. talks about the site visitor not intending or not anticipating, but also the site visitor remembering the site knows this and being reminded that the site knows this. Also a second which I've forgotten..

Don: if the user reasonably .. let's say you've been a user of example.com for six months and they get a new third party service and stick their script on the page, from the pov of a reasonable user when you chose to become a user of example.com you didn't choose 'i choose to share my info with example.com and with the company they make a deal with six months from now'. There is a privacy harm if the user has a reasonable expectation and then something happens behind the scenes. What I don't want to have happen is for some of the adtech single sign on people to say th euser clicked through on this document six months ago on a different site therefore they must approve of this transfer of information today on this site.

Dan: privacy policies usually say something like 'we reserve ther ight to change the third parties.. that maybe be handling your data' ?

Don: that's what's interesting about this PR. It's taling about the users' raeasonablel expectations and not what is written in a legal document. Yes there are juristictions in which you can pack stuff into a legal doc and do whatever you want. But other juristictions in which you can't do 'dark patterns' and the standard is mor eof what would a reasonable user expect to have done with my personal information, rather than what's the most extreme thing that can be eexpressed in a legal document

Jeffrey: I like the idea of user can't sign away surprising things, to poke at those clauses in privacy policies. This PR isn't th eright place. It seems much more general.

Don: I'll make it a different PR. I'll write something on a reasonable user standard. it might be reasonable to say I'll share my email address and know that my profile symbol is going to show up on the page but it might not be reasonable to say I'll click this button and spooky legal stuff will happen to me in the future.

Robin: having a notion of reasonable person expectation is an interesting thing to add. 

Christine: the reasonable expectation piece was pulled form the text that jeffrey had done for same site recognition and cross site recognition section, so I was mirroring that language. I agree that unwanted profiling happens in the circumstance of same site recognition and cross site recognition but I also want to make surew e don't lose sight of profiling on first visit. this originally started off with how can we write about the privacy harm of that single visit.

Jeffrey: also visits when the user intends to be recognised as the same user but doesn't want to be profiled accross them

Christine: absolutely

Jeffrey: I don't think this is a good place to refer to unsanctioned tracking, possibly the unwanted recognition section?

Christine: we discussed earlier about wanting to referencing it but when I put it in I thought it's not quite the same thing. I'm glad.. yes it didn't seem to be the right place, thank you.

Dan: want to leave a comment? Then we've left some stuff which Pete can review and come back to it next week?

Jeffrey: move it to 40 where it fits better

Dan: anything else on this PR? Happy with the furries example?

Don: furries is good

Tess: don't dare you take away that example

Dan: one thing that occurred to me about the example is it's an example of somebody who might want sites to not learn about this particular interest however it doesn't therefore say .. should the example go further and say therefore this person would not expect.. the reasonable person aspect.. they would not expect this information to leak, because right now it reads more like this is a protected class of individual. What's the therefore?

Robin: example cold be made clearer after we cleanly split the section and make it about unexpected inferences because one of the things I feel makes the example not really work is becuase that user is being profiled as a furry despite a browser with robust fingerprinting protection which seems unlikely. If you're not recognising across multiple interactions you're not going ot guess very easily. But if we make it about unwanted inferences, Peter may be reading this website and may even identify with this website but might not expect to be profiled as a furry because he reads all the articles about.. what furries read, therefore we've inferred a furry and he starts getting furry ads. 

Dan: need to refine the example, good to have it here and agree we should keep the cultural reference. But we need to be clear about what we're making the example of and the purpose of the example. How should we make a note of that?

Robin: [types comment]


### [Refine the cross-context recognition threats now that the #identity section defines the concept.](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/40)

Jeffrey: Christine doesn't like this principle allows violations in certain cases. Also suggests we repeat the privacy harm occurs paragraph, which I think makes sense. Christine also suggested adding a best practice? I removed that from same site recognition and had one for the whole section, does that work?

Christine: it does, I missed that nuance. I feel uncomfortable with having this document saying we have this principle and we're going to allow privacy violations. I wondered if we could rephrase what we were trying to say.

Jeffrey: that phrasing is to explain the fact that for any significant... trying to point out the limitiations in the principle, don't care what word we use to point at them. I need a suggestion.

Christine: highlighting them is the right thing to do. I tried to suggest some possible other phrasing which may not be quite right. 

Jeffrey: we could say the principle.. in cases that affect a small fraction of people.. avoiding those limtiations would break fundamental aspects. make sense?

Dan: feels hedging to me. There was some feedback on twitter I got on the ethical principles earlier in the week that the person felt that the document was too hedging. i opened [an issue](https://github.com/w3ctag/ethical-web-principles/issues/51) that we're going to discuss next week which is how can we make our statements less hedging. That's feedback from the community. I can see, channelling that feedback into this clause i can see that community might feel the same way about this. I think without breaking valid use cases or break fundamental aspects of thew eb is something we need to qualify. What do we mean by fundamental aspects of the web? If we mean high use websites that people expect to be able to use or apis or.. what do we mean? What's fundamental for some people might not be for other people. If we're talking about breaking something that milliosn of people a day use in their daily lives? That's really waht we're talking about here right? We maybe need to be a bit more direct about it.

Jeffrey: can add examples. We are fundamentally hedging here: we're not saying that UAs are always going to prevent recognition there are exceptions

Dan: trying to define what we mean a bit about breaking the web. That feedback comes up quite a lot when developers of an api are arguing why it needs to behave in a certain way. Otherwise it would break the web. That's a conversation stopper. Oh okay, it'll Break the Web, we can't do it. Being more clear about what we mean would help.

Jeffrey: examples I'm thinking of adding are ability to run javascript..

Dan: that would be good

Jeffrey: linking in general with URLs.. clearly fundamental and also introduce privacy violations

Dan: that would be good. People would understand we're not talking about mysterious api calls

Christine: Personally-identifying information -> personal information?

Jeffrey: It is identifying though.

Robin: Drop "personally-".

Jeffrey: Will do.

### [fiduciary](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/36)

Tess: it's exactly the case that fiduciary is a term of art. Probably the same reason robin wants to use it that I think we shoudln't. I don't think we should be getting ahead of the law, specifically wrt the relationship between user agents and users. There's a few thoughts.. one is a very practical thought - with my AC rep hat loosely on, i think it would be challenging to make the AC happy about a document that used this word in this way. I anticipate it would be more difficult to sell it to the AC with this kind of wording. Ultimately i don't disagree with the substance of the section. I think we should be defining the duties that user agents have to their users. we have this whole notion of the user agent 'fight for the users'. that's been implicit in the w3c and in the definitions on the web in general for the whole time. It's a share cultural assumption that we should write down becuase as the w3c grows and changes we can't take for granted that anyone shares that cultural background of what we think user agents are. Substantively I love the section. I probably have some other tweaks but I think both from a standpoint of not wanting to tie this too specifically to a specific legal concept that has different implications in different juristictions, it's also a practical.. from a political pragmatist standpoint we'd be doing ourselves a disfavour by leaving this word in.

Robin: makes sense. been trying to figure out what words we could use instead and haven't come up with a good one.  Ithink I agree. It scares people, and scares lawyers for sure. We don't want scared lawyers.

Tess: I'd love to hear Christine's thoughts

Robin: happy to find another word, would love to entertain suggestions. Writing down the cultural expectations is exactly what i have in mind, something we realy need to do, that's the heart. Difficultly I'm coming up with .. the alternatives.. custodial.. trusted entity or something.. trustworthy something. i can find something.

Christine: you're right a fiduciary is a term of art with legal meaning and has legal implications. Given this is not a legal document I don't think we want to import those legal notions. However I really would like data controllers and data processors to treat data in a more fiduciary manner. I'm trying to think.. I suggested some words .. I suggested data stewardship or the notion of being a custodian. What we want to do is to convey that there is a responsibility that brings in the elements of what a fiduciary is required to do without bringing in the legal concepts.

Robin: I agree

Jeffrey: I'm looking at how we use fiduciary and it's not very much in the user agents section. Avoiding the term would improve our compliance with the TAG style guide. it's a term people might not know. Not use it and not replace it with anything.. duties as duties and say what they are.. we could say this set of duties has been referred to as fiducuary in some reference? 

Tess: we can say the term used in the literature is x, since we have references

Dan: sounds right to me

Christine [in chat]: In op piece, a while ago, I said "Adopt the mantle of data stewardship - Companies should act as custodians of users’ personal data – protecting the data, not only as a business necessity, but also on behalf of the individuals themselves. (In some circumstances, this may mean putting users’ interests first and collecting, using and sharing less personal data.)"

Jeffrey: nervous.. stewardship and custodian are also fancy words that people might not actually understand what they mean in detail

Robin: agree with custodian.. not sure about stewardship?

Dan: What's the path forward?

Robin: I will find a way of saying the things that doesn't use the complicated words.

------

### Users

Dan: I just created an issue on a dissonance between this dpocument and the Ethical Web Principles. We had a [PR #46](https://github.com/w3ctag/ethical-web-principles/pull/46) where we tried to minimize the use of the word "user". We should think about minimizing them too. Replace "user" with "person" where possible. I'll send a PR. In general we tried to qualify user - like 'web user' or a user of this service, rather than just 'users' in general. Users as a replacement for person that we're trying to minimise. Raised [issue 52](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/52)








