# TAG Privacy TF

6 October 2021

Present: Wendy, Dan, Tess, Robin, Don

[pr30](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/30)

Robin: jeffrey had a bunch of comments to discuss... not ready to merge...

[pr57](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/57)

**merged**

[pr56](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/56)

Dan: I don't think this meme works very well in an august document. Let's remove it, and bring back a meme when we find one that fits better.

Don: Can open an issue to translate the whole document to memes. https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/58

**agreed no meme for now, sorry robin**

[pr55](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/55)

Tess: agree this is more readible.

Jeffrey: it looks good but would like time to read it.

**jeffrey to merge it if he's happy with it**

[pr38](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/38)

DA: Still need updates from Pete

[pr40](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/40)

DA: We looked at this last week, any updates?

JY: I think things are ready, I didn't get new review from CR but I think I got the changes she wanted done.

DA: In the interest of moving things along, should we review this and merge.

TO: Jeffrey if you review Fiduciary, we review this, and that moves it all along.

Group: great idea (discussed directly in GH)

**PR 40 Merged** after approval of editorial changes from group.

[pr53](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/53)

Obviousness of identity as seen by a site 

DM: Make it clear to a user if their identity is known to a site. We discussed this last week.

JY: I'm uncomfortable putting should requirements on a UA when it can't because it doesn't know about the consent.

DM: What if the user provided consent out of band, the UA has no way of knowing and reminding the user. We could open an
issue to make sure that the UA is not responsible to search for consent of which it is not aware and merge as is?

JY: I'm OK with with that. There's an ongoing project in that document of separating the truth from what the UA knows
about.

RB: I like putting it that way, we should write that.

DA: Merge?

DM: Yes, let's merge and issue.

DA: Any other issues? We have some new issues to look at. 

WS: Noting conversation in the Improving Web Advertising BG: https://www.w3.org/2021/09/14-web-adv-minutes.html

Group discusses potential future work on Contextual Integrity.
