# Minutes of Privacy TF Call - 07-July-2021

Attendees: Robin, Amy, Tess, Dan, Jonathan
Regrets: Jeffrey

## Merged [PR 12](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/12).

Document first draft [created](https://w3ctag.github.io/privacy-principles/).

Dan: we all need to spend time reviewing.

Robin: an interesing way of going forward would be if people went through sections, looked at definitions, if there's stuf fyou disagree with open an issue. Ideally I'd like to get to agreement on the definitions section by section or something. Doing it in batches of definitions. That way we start to build some solid ground. 

Dan: I want to structure the call around issues and PRs. Anything we are talking about should be attached to an issue. Changes can be discussed as PRs. Production mentality.

## Open PRs

### [pr 8](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/8) to split experts out.

Dan: uncontroversial

Robin: also approved

Dan: merging

### [pr 13](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/13) generate ToC

Dan: good to merge? okay.

## Open issues

### [Figure out the default privacy boundary for the web](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/1)

Dan: in discussion about first party sets there was disagreement about whether FPS was redefining origin, but the spec proposers did not feel they were redefining origin. We don't need to delve into that, but maybe set out some ground truths about what origin is. We linked from the readme to [the WHATWG definition of origin](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#origin)

Jonathan: does whatwg use the pls?

Tess: yes, the whatwg html spec defines the concept of 'site' and site depends on psl

Jonathan: can we point to a place and not worr about it? seems out of scope

Robin: the current tendancy is to try to broaden the privacy boundary... i'd be interested in doing the opposite.. first party splits, where a given origin might be split with boundaries ..

Tess: precedent in service worker scope within an origin

Robin: cookies do too. 

Jonathan: Brad from webappsec tried to propose this ages ago as well

Robin: with the idea that this document is for discussion.. it can lay out options and pros and cons and what the principled option would be. The problem of using origin is its an incentive towards horizontal integration. Any company that can acquire many companies and pt them under its domain can freely share data, and independants cannot. Seeing if we can revive this idea of scope and put it under...

Dan: there are multiple privacy boundaries currently. Even the service worker partioning is a different kind of privacy boundary. Some are based on origin and some aren't. At least we can talk about definition of origin which we don't dispute, defined in whatwg. But it's very short. Requires additional words. It needs to be expanded for implications for web privacy. Maybe it needs to be strengthened in that we should be saying new web features should adhere to origin as default. Should need a very good reason to not adhere to origin as privacy boundary. 

Jonathan: that sounds undisputable..

Robin: there are people who dispute that

Dan: there are people on both sides of that issue that are disputing it

Robin: first party sets breaks that. SWAN also works on the assumption that this must be breakable. It's obvious to this group that that should be the minimal value but the point is to get it on paper. 

Jonathan: that was my concern, that we're going to fall on this first issue and not agree on anything because we've tried to write down something.. if we agree right now that origin is the default we might not get buy in from others

Tess: one way of looking is an empirical question rather than aspirational. The default privacy boundary in terms of deployed content is the site not the origin. That's the cookie boundary, so that'ss the privacy boundary. That's the deployed reality. The point of the document is to put a stake in the ground in a future that we want not the present that we're in. The question is is the future that we want moving site to origin? There are some compatibility concerns with trying to tinker with that.

Dan: from the perspective of new web tech should behave in this way, rather than trying to say .. i don't think it's in scope for this document to say xyz things in web platform now are broken and must be fixed, but we can say in an ideal world this is the right approach. From the perspective of the TAG and how we might use this, it's about measuring new proposals against a set of principles. Often we get peole saying our thing doesn't match your design principle but you can already do it with this other old tech, or there's another thing that doesn't operate in that way, but yes it was built before we came up with thes eprinciples, so now we have a new bar... 

Jonathan: similar to what happened with secure contexts. You set a bar, and over time we try to progressively fix apis as well if we could without breaking the web

Tess: there was a concerted effrot from the TAG and the Internet Architecture Board etc to make that happen and it happened. That's what we're trying to do here

Dan: I don't think we can resolve it today but we have good stuff to add to it

Robin: can add thoughts. And think of ways it can fit in. I'd like to have Jeffrey's view on that first of course. Jonathan mentioned something Brad Hill had done?

Jonathan:  he made a proposal that got shot down, kind of the opposite to first party sets, I'll try to find a link.

Robin: I'll write in issue

Jonathan: are we going to enumerate all the weird edge cases?

Robin: probably don't need to go through all the weird origins... not that much concern of sharing data with `about="_blank"`.. 

### [Address device owners](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/2)

Dan: agree with some of this. A prevelant abuse case with iot devices is abusive partners with control over devices using them to surveil. We tried to prompt the web of things people to be more aggressive about talking about these abuse cases and how web of things, which envisions a world where you can bring any device in and it opersates in your cloud of devices, how they seek to mitigate those threats. I think talking about that here is relevant. And also how the dynamic between.. we had an api we've been reviewing about enterprise control over configuration of browsers, and being a parent with teens I've been on the sharp end of child monitoring issues... all of these things are very relevant and not something we should shy away from. It's not clear to me that we can fix all the world's problems. They are social issues more than technical.

Robin: I agree that as phrased in the issue I don't know how to translate into the doc in a way that would have a real world effect. I think that might be something to do i nthe issue, push back and say yes but how do we make this work. WHat is the section we can add to the document or paragraph of sentance that makes this consideration somehow applicable.. how can we tease ou something that isn't just people misuse this to do bad things, that sucks, but .. I agree, I don't want it to be achecklist item - we looked at abuase case and wrote a sentence and moved on - we should figure out a way to make this actually do something. It is an issue, just don't know how to address it in this document.

Dan: encouraging api designers to think about abuse cases is useful. Ideally it's not just a box ticking exercise. The abusive partner use cases is real. Similar to enterprise surveiling their workers thing. Maybe it's something we want a stake in the ground about.

Robin: agree. My concern when I say box ticking exercise is we used to have a requirement about privcy section, but without the privacy threat model that goes with it so people can think it through, it's like people will write one paragraph and say they thought about privacy.. my concern is that we could land in the same situation. If we're going to do this, and I'm interested in doing it, we should work out what people should be thinking about. What is the threat model here that we are concerend about? One form of abuse is surveillence, if ou design geolocation such that it's hard to have a background process giving an arbitrary .. we can have a threat model for abuses and figure out how they can be mitigated. We should turn this into more than thinking about abuse, we should look at more detailed threats.

### [Clarify what topics are covered in this document, vs other PING and TAG docs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/7)

Tess: commented. There should still be a privacy threat model doc in PING. In this TF isn't going to contain the detailed description of threats and mitigations. Probably have to clarify for ourselves. We have some shared understanding? Might be worth having something at beginning of doc sayng what it is and what it's nt, with forwarding pointers. It's not the security and privcay questionnaire. Have a concise description of what document is and is not trying to be.

Dan: agree. Maybe this can turn into a PR. What comes out of this work stream is a joint TAG and PING document. 

### [Expand the "related documents" section](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/9)

Dan: on the readme.. related to issue 7.. is it a dup? [notes]

### [Describe paradigms for data use](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/11)

Robin: this discussion needs Jeffrey. He lists 4 things as potential paradigms for data use, I dn't think they're in the same category (summary of my comment). Contextual integrity is a framework that can encompass all of these and you can plug into to analyse data context.. 

Dan: they're all different level.. all conceptual frameworks for how we think about data and privacy.

Robin: they are, but contextual integrity is different in that you can describe all of the others in it. 

Dan: I see what you mean. Wait til Jeffrey is back?

Robin: yeah

Dan: worthwhile when we're talkinga bout what this document is not, we're not trying to bless any particular regulatory approach to data. Whatever we're working on has to work well with .. needs to be divorced from regulatory approaches..

Robin: not saying this is the right way of putting it but I try to address that in third paragraph of the intro

[anarchy chat]

### [Follow the TAG Style Guide](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/15)

Tess: we have a TAG style guide so we should follow it. This initial cut is a smerging of two preexisiting documents. As we all do a once through on the document and generate issues and whatnot we should rework the text to better match the TAG's voice 

Dan: the other thing is about contractions. Often brough up as something that doesn't work for people without english as a first language, but we've got a lot of feedback that it does make it easier. Additional stuff about inclusive language. Leave this open as a reminder?

Tess: Leave it open until we do a once over on the text. Going forward its just something to remember when we write PRs. As it currently stands I don't think the text really fits this terribly well. 

### [There is no "latest published version"](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/16)

Tess: we shouldn't link to a nonexistant published version but the boilerplate generates it

Robin: I'll look into that
