# W3C TAG Privacy TF

Wednesday 8 September 2021

Present: Don, Tess, Wendy, Dan, Jeffrey, Christine
Regrets: Amy, Pete


## Minutes



## PRs

### Redefining party

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/32 and https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/43

Don: single legal entity seems to be too simple for actual web companies... When I look at TOS and privacy policy docs, the thing you're clicking "agree" to for large companies does not involve a single legal entity. If you're in the USA it's a US entity. If in Europe you're participating as a user of the same party but the legal entity you have a relationship with is in Ireland.  Some political issues about how translational orgs are structured.  How can we define party in a way that matches up with the way people use party with sites that are already out there?

Christine: Generally speaking the data controller is a single entity - not necessarily mirroring privacy & data protection rules - we want to use useful definitions.  But it doesn't make sense to me - a part is one. Logically a party that includes other entities depending on circumnstances doesn't make sense.  Implications of what we include as a first party - we don't unintentionally allow a broader set of entities.  We don't want a 3rd party to be dressed up as a 1st party.  Answer is : what are the implications of being X?

[some discussion on how this relates to the first party sets proposal]

Dan: Not sure if it's a problem to have different users interacting with different parties. If I make an agreement with Amazon Ireland because I'm in Europe, any data-sharing arrangements are still arrangements with that party.

Jeffrey: It's probably OK if the party that I'm interacting with on foo.com is different than the party that you're interacting with. There's probably an issue if I travel. Because then this web site represents a different party. Then all the UA's arrangement and assumptions might not fit. That seems like a legal problem also... With respect ro practical issues - you can have a set of different first parties all on the same web page - sufficient branding. We don't need 2 levels of sets. A lot of the text is written to assume there's only one first party.  The text gets more awkward when we assume there can be a set of first parties.  First party sets is intended to be a set of domains that are a first party.

Wendy: Can I be radical and say we don't need a definition of party?  We seem to be debating lots of subsidiary questions underneath this definition - and there are some open questions here. Do we need it?

Don: I like that - any definition of party will catch some real world companies - a user that has an account with example.com Ireland and rents a car in Califonia and uses example.com's mapping service, then example.com in the USA will get the user's location data. Coming out with a defintion of party based on single entities will mismatch with how some web companies are structured.

Jeffrey: i would be fine with that as long as we do it explicitly - I'm also fine with keeping the set of parties. The do not track spec uses a set of parties... Maybe keep that and not try to relitigate it.

Dan: I'd like to try to have a definition that's good enough, even if it's not specific enough, so that people know what we're talking about. Pulling something from Do Not Track, which has already gone through the process, could be the right approach. In Don's example, where you're using a service across national borders, you're still doing so with the expectation that you're sharing your data primarily with the party you dealt with initially. If I walk up to a British Airways counter in Heathrow and bought a ticket to go to California. And then I'm in CA and go to a BA customer service center, I expect that they're going to be able to pull up the record of my transaction and ticket details. But I don't think I've bought something from BA USA; I've bought something from BA, and maybe there's a subsidiary with a data sharing agreement with the original company, so they can get the right data. So my mental model still has a single legal entity. If we open it up to multiple parties, it feels like we're allowing for a third-party being able to claim that they're a first party via an agreement.

Don: Users interpret their terms of service in the context of the laws that apply to them. If you're making an account at example.com, and you make it in a country with some legal protection for refugees. "I might be visiting some refugees, so I want my location info handled in a particular way." You have your account in that country, your ToS apply from that country. Now you go to another country with different laws, and you keep using example.com, and in the original context their terms worked for you, but now you're exchanging information with the example.com legal entity in country 2. If we're talking about the actual ToS that apply, people will understand parties within the context of the legal system where they accepted the ToS.

Dan: Wouldn't that ToS already say "by the way, you agree that example.com UK can share with example.com Ireland, USA, Group, etc." I still have the example.com agreement. Maybe my mental model is weird.

Don: Yes, in practice the party is that transnational multi-entity company.

Jeffrey: If the user made an agreement in a certain context and now they're being surprised and disapointed then our principles should discourage that.

Don: The concept of legal entity as party doesn't match how transnational companies deal with data. That party can be exposed across many legal entities.

Christine: Thinking of your example - makes me think of defining corporate rules of multinationals - still traded separately even though they're related.  Our ultimnate goal is the privacy principles in the web apply in the best way possible - so going back to wendy's question - can we talk about these things without using the word party.

Tess: I wrote a [blog post](https://tess.oconnor.cx/2020/10/parties) - all conversations about party get bogged down on these things - we might not get to agree on what it means - and maybe we should focus on specific technicla concepts that are well defined. However: i wrote that in the context of specs - technical specs - specs shouldn't rely on terms from realm of policy.  But here we are trying to articulate privacy policy principles that can be used in specs but also referenced by policy people. Mabye it's OK to come up with text on the terms that ultimately is ambiguous.  This is one way of looking at party - with these up sides and down sides - this is one other way to look at party.  Goal to create understanding of the debate... I would be surprised if we come up with a precise def of party that we all agree.

Don: In California I can check using CCPA. If a CCPA right-to-delete that I send to one place affects how my information is used in a 2nd place then those are part of the same party. A definition should be based on behaviour that users or agents of users can check. 

Wendy : part of the challenge - legally there infinite many relationships - accountability, liability, responsibility.  Plenty of times when distinct legal entity will contract for sharing of responsibility - times when law doesn't permit you to give away responsbility. Some of those rules differ across jurisdictions.  Beyond enumerating different considerations not sure how we cna pick just one.

Jeffrey: more convinced we should base it on reasonable user expecations.  We should skip trying to use legal terms and talk about users.

Tess: sympathetic - but concerned - if we do that we need to pass a note in it for policy - to note that in different jurisdictions you have defintions of party that might not line up with what users expect.  

Jeffrey: different uses of this document may need more precise definitions of party. 

Tess: slightly worried that that minimises the case where some come up with a notion of part where that's incompatible with thes definitions.

Jeffrey: this doc exists to set ground rules for arguments in the future.

Tess: I like the focus on user expectation - reasonable and typlical user expectations.

Dan: My one worry is that it opens the door for someone to say "users expect X, Y, Z behavior on the web, expect their data to be shared". I don't want to open the door for that ambiguity. Wording should err on the side of stronger meaning

Jeffrey: I think - remembering what Robin said - one can do research on what users expect - and we can discover that.  When people that users expect their privacy to be violated - we can ask for the research to back up that statement...

Tess: part of what we can do here - challenge people who disagree for burden of proof. This document is more aspirational than descriptive, so some cynicism is misplace. We're trying to describe the web we want.

Dan: That's part of my issue with a user-centric framing. People are cynical, and the reasonalb eexpectation is shifting as people read about data sharing. We don't want to match that expectation; we want to match what users want and what they would expect if everyone were being honorable. I hope we can get to that wording.

Christine: +1 to Dan

Jeffrey: will wordsmith...


[discussion of PR40]() - going through Christine's [comments](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/40#issuecomment-914681258).  

Christine: funtamental to the web too open - 

Jeffrry: i wanted to make it strong - but architecture seems too constained... Feel it's small set of things... web's success depends on things beyond the architecture.

Dan:  The more we qualify thing, the weaker the language gets. I like the phrase "fundamental to the web". 

Tess: fundamental features of the web to me are clicking on links - someone else might think of it as a business model that helps them fund their web site - that's ambiguity we shouldn't have.

Jeffrey: we should have some ambiguity - frame the right arguments... the argument that change that breaks a business model that is fundamental to [sharing memes, videos] is an argument we want to enable them to make.

Christine: I'm ok with "fundamental to the web" - 

Tess: add the word technical before feature - techncical feature that is fundamental to the web.. I feel better about that....

Jeffrey: I'm fine.

Christine: that's what I was trying to get at.

Christine: "a small numnberr of people" - we shouldn't say it's ok to violate a small fraction of people's privacy - maybe there's another way to express it.  what if those people are from a veunerable group?  Why should if you're in a small group you have worse privacy expereince?

Tess: yes I think we should have text that calls that out... In our design principles we say "the use of assistive tech should not be detectable" - that's a smaller group and more veunerable group - explicit goal of preventing detection of beinng in that group. Active attempt to minimise.  We want to strongly suggest that readers of this should make this trend towards 0 if possible.

Jeffrey: this is specifically about cross context recognition rather than profiling - if someone uses a minority browser or uses minority language - some of those are available in the web platform - and therefore makes you more identifiable. we can't prevent that type of fingerprinting. 

Tess: what about something like dark mode - prefers-color-scheme is exposed, that's a bit of fingerprinting.  whatever the default setting...  current text too narrow?

Christine: if we add in what - what tess said - that "this happens but we try to minimise it where we can" and using the word "involuntary" - we shouldn't say "were going to allow this to happen" - i think we can say we want to minimise this where we can.

Chrsitne: do we have to use trade-offs.. 
