# TAG Privacy Task Force Call Minutes - 27 October 2021

Present: Dan, Don, Wendy, Jeffrey, Robin

Regrets: Tess, Amy, Pete, Christine

## Minutes

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/30

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/69
[discussion of the change user => person. General support, needs a bit more review for specific cases]

Don: there's a difference between the role of web publisher and the reader of my site; sometimes "users" refers to the readers ("user-comprehensible" means just what an ordinary site visitor can reasonably understand?)

Dan: discuss for a few more days then merge? 

Robin: should we agree that when it says "person using" it may not be an improvement.

Jeffrery: In some cases it's an improvement.

Don: where there is a specific known activity use a different verb rather than 'use' - e.g. visiting a site.

Dan: Y'all make proposed changes. I'll accept those and do another pass myself. I'll make a call out to group members after we do a pass through it and we can merge it before next week's call.

### [webadv](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/61)

[nothing new]

### [categories](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/70)

Jeffrey: we ought to refactor them together at some point.

Robin: i think it's all definitions... maybe we should take all the subsections of definitions and principles and bring them to the root... It's not clear they're that different in terms of section types.  Some of the defintions might turn into more [like principles].   Also the privacy principles do define stuff.  Maybe have 14 sections.

Dan: yes agreed.

### [cross device tracking](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/71)

Jeffrey: It's good to mention - we haven't mentioned it and we ought to.

Robin: agreed.

Dan: what could we say?

Jeffrey: a partition is already within a single device- we need to give it as an example and mention some of the vectors.

Wendy: shared understanding that things that aren't individually identifying or sensitive can be used across devices for tracking/linkage.

Robin: do we want to talk about ultrasonic tracking as different from identity graphs...?

Don: we need to emphasize they're two tools to do the same bad thing...  using a technical mechanism directly and using a dark pattern are exploiting 2 pathways to the same goal.  either speaker/ microphone or user not investing time to understand what they click.

Robin: do we want to consider ways this is used to protect the user? e.g. apple tags can warn you if there's a tag following you around that isn't yours.  

Dan: anti-stalking tech.

Jeffrey: related to anti-fraud.

Dan: anti-fraud from location-tracking, e.g. if bank sees transaction from location different from your phone

Jeffrey: how safety application interact with this privacy stuff.

Robin: will open another issue for that.

Dan: misuse by e.g. abusive partners...

Jeffrey: might have filed an issue on this or EWP. e.g. surveillance by employers on devices they own

Dan: [managed device](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/606) TAG closed unsatisfied. dystopia-creation spec. Even if there are already more invasive ways to do this via extension, TAG felt it shouldn't be added to the platform.
... think about what we can control. We can't control what extensions, OS, network providers do, but can talk about the web platform.

Jeffrey: need to add device owners into priority of constituencies, somehow. They exist and may have different concerns from those people who use the devices. 

Robin: then do we have a total order?  if we add advertisers, others, how does the ordering interact? Maybe it's a multi-dimensional list.

Dan: who even is the device owner? e.g. of a locked device to a mobile operator. 

Don: web in general (not just publisher/advertiser web) - e.g. medical records system of an HMO - device owner sees their needs as overriding the need of the user to control their experience. 

Don: principles that get built into general purpose browsers will get reflected into niche applications everywhere. (for example, Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) for defense procurement)

Jeffrey: it's maybe easier than general priority of constituencies-... principle might be that device user should be made aware of any privacy invasions the owner is enforcing. 

Robin: yes.                                             

Jeffrey: and probably not as a one-time consent either.  I will file an issue for that.  

Robin: at least we should start with the privacy aspects...

### [the other privacy principles]

[trust token privacy doc](https://github.com/WICG/trust-token-api/blob/main/PRIVACY_FRAMEWORK.md)

Dan: references: https://github.com/michaelkleber/privacy-model 

Jeffrey: our (chrome) vision for what we're trying to enforce... analagous to [webkit](https://webkit.org/tracking-prevention-policy/) and [mozilla](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Anti_tracking_policy) documents...

Robin: it's fine to take Michael's doc as the chrome position?

Jeffrey: i think it's still pretty accurate. 

Robin: does microsoft have one?

Jeffrey in chat: Maybe https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2019/06/27/tracking-prevention-microsoft-edge-preview/ ?

Jeffrey: they say "cross-site tracing vectors can't be used to identify users at scale" - and the "scale" part has been contentious between browsers.  

Don: we have to be careful - if cross-site tracking at scale is difficult - then bad actors could register large numbers of junk domains.  tracking could be allowed with a zillion sites with n users on each one...

Jeffrey: i think that would violate the goal of preventing it at scale....  likely to be some debate between different groups. I incorporated something along these lines into our doc... https://w3ctag.github.io/privacy-principles/#hl-recognition-cross-context that's a rephrasing of this at-scale thing. 

Don: trust tokens are one of the things I was thinking about - which could incentivise people to register a large number of junk domains. (A possible mitigation might be for the browser to [delay before token redemption](https://github.com/WICG/trust-token-api/issues/82) on potentially untrusted sites.)

Robin: i prefer jeffrey's version.

Jeffrey: making sure we're ready for people to refer to this doc... we haven't established consensus... we could do something like i did with web bluetooth - anything drafty has a different background color.

Robin: a little unicocde green light / red light to the heading..?

Dan: I prefer to just note any issues where we have big issues - and assume rough consensus on other parts.

Robin: i think it's ok.  if we feel it's referencable we should just say so.

