# TAG Privacy Taskforce Minutes - 22 September 2021 

Present: Dan, Sam, Don, Christine, Robin, Jeffrey

Regrets: Amy, Jonathan, Peter

## Minutes

### [PR on personal data](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/30)

Robin : inconstency in def of personal data - the def listed identifiers, but forgot to say "data attached to one of those identifiers" - which is important.  That's where the weirdness came from... I'd like people to look at it before we merge it.  It's fraught and complicated to define personal data but we shouldn't do it lightly.

[group to review]

### Parties

[PR44](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/44)

Christine: i looked at it again - i don't think i can form an oponion until i see how it plays out in the document?

Robin: I like it - but also this is a new way of looking at party... I would be comfortable taking it and flagging it as something to review to see if it fits...

Don: Accept it but open up an issue to read through the whole doc to see how this definition of party flows with everything else we're saying.

Jeffrey: this sounds fine to me.

Tess: it seems good to me.

Dan: Let's merge it, then open up a new issue where we explicitly give ourselves a task to re-review it in 2 months' time or somehting...  Should we ask for community feedback?

Robin: [merges]

Don: First party sets ongoing debate will be looking at this itently.  That might be an inetresting community.

Jeffrey: [closes the 32 and 43]

### [Rewrite SotD according to style guide #45](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/45)

Tess: question - the first change - isn't it the TAG that publishes draft findings?  Task force provides text to the TAG.

[we wordsmith the SotD]

Christine: No normative content?

Tess: that sentence is a term of art in spec land - could we rework it to be not confusing?

Robin: this doc does not contain any RFC-2119 content?

Christine: I imagine we'll be recommending best practices - some of those will be "this is a good idea" - some will be "you should do this" or "you should never do this" - but the expectation is that they will be followed.

Tess: reminds me of the rendering section of the HTML spec - it has to say a bunch of normative things without using normative terms.  we can do the same thing here.  If the best practice says "never do x" we can say it in a way that doesn't use 2119 terms - but there are more natural ways to say it.  Proposal "This documennt does not contain any normative statements in the RFC2119 sense." 

Sam: just use normative.

Christine: we need to signal - even if it's not normative in a technical sense, spec authors will be expected to follow this guidance...

Dan: process of TAG review

Tess: we also will be elevating this to a w3c statement - not just the tag's moral authority behind it.

Robin: let's nuke that sentence. 

[sold]

**merged**

### [46](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/46)

[wordsmithed]

**merged**



