# Privacy TF Meeting Minutes

18 Aug 2021

Present: Tess, Christine, Jonathan, Pete, Robin, Sam, Wendy, Jeffrey

Scribe: Robin

Chair: Jeffrey

## Pull Requests

### [Define party by accountability, not ownership? #32](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/32)

JY: This overlaps with #26, you talked about this last week. Is there more?

RB: We generally agreed that this seemed like a good idea.

JY: We had a question in Google about whether we should use "data controller" to define this, but we weren't sure.

CR: We spent time on terminology in general.

### [Identity and boundary](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/28)

JY: Ready to merge?

PS: Is this talk later or controversial forever?

JY: It's talk later.

RB: We should try to get to the consensus thing.

### [Logo discussion](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/20)

TO: We should probably leave it unmerged for now.

### [Update the Status](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/17)

JY: I think this is good?

RB: Yeah.

Tess to merge #17.

TO: Merged!

## Issues

### [Issue #35: Opt-in consent / Opt-out Global Control](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/35)

CR: `First sentence: Change “control” to “express a preference for what processing is done to their data”.`

RB: Agreed.

CR: `Second sentence: “uses” would seem more relevant in this context than “purposes”, or perhaps “uses and/or purposes”.`

RB: I'm trying to parse out what `use` is if it's not processing/means or purpose.

CR: Consent is to the means of the purposes.

RB: I think we agree, it's a question of mapping the definitions.

JY: I think it makes sense but we'll need to define `use` or figure out the definition.

WS: Do we really want to define opt-in/out in this way?

CR: We need to consider that, yes.

Group — let's see what we all think next week.

CR: great site for dark patterns

CR : Also thought about tiers, interesting approach. But should vulnerable people have to opt out, that is a problem. Also there are issues about choosing to opt out.

RB: Yes, vulnerable people should be out automatically, though it incentivises not knowing. And choice is problematic.

JY: The names optin/out are problematic, we should change that.

CR: Permissions are important, we should bring them in.

JY: You're right that we should try, not sure how but yes.

RB: Agreed.

JY: Similar to privacy goals vs how browser can enforce them.

### [Unwanted same-site recognition #34](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/34)

CR: The document suggests that users will be recognised but users might not expect that their whole behaviour is kept.

RB: I think there's a third thing which is profiling.

CR: Yes, but I think that there is a fine line between behaviour and profiling, we have to be careful about that.

RB: Agreed.

JY: I'm nervous about blanket saying "do not expect tracking of previous interactions", also recommending content is a form of profiling.

CR: Users might expect maintenance of state for different purposes (cart, identity) but not others. But I agree we might need to revisit the section. This opens the question of whether we need a section on same-site tracking.

JY: I think yes.

CR: We might want to have recommendations for this section, we don't have them now. Nick's work does have some best practices for "unwanted same-site" and for tracking.

JY: Right, we can't just subsume this into the identity section, fingerprinting belongs here.

RB: I wonder how far we can go with guidance but it would be interesting to grapple with it.

CR: There is something already in the @@?

JY: I can take a stab at some of that, I'd appreciate someone else taking a stab at same-site.

PS: I can dot that.

### ["Pseudonymous" with respect to whom? #33](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/33)

WS: While reading the doc from the perspective of somebody controlling data rather than the user, a solve might be as simple as "pseudonymous with respect to the first party"

RB: That works for me!

JY: Pseudonymous data and pseudonymous _for a party_ (which may be the first) might be usefully distinguished.

RB: Agreed, ongoing rewrite.

### [Privacy principles by category (high level privacy threats) #27](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/27)

JY: We might not have anything new?

CR: Section of document that pulled out privacy issues from the IETF document. It's been a while since that doc was created, we might want to define and describe them in W3C space. The doc talks about stored data compromise — I think we could expand that to data compromise at large, including in transit.

JY: SGTM. I will PR.

### [Definitions #26](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/26)

RB: Nothing new since the meeting, it's all stuff I have to do.
