# Privacy TF Call - June 15 2022

Present: Dan, Don, Shubhie, Jonathan, Nick

Regrets: Christine, Pete, Sam, Wendy

## [Nick's PR](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/170)

Nick: the request was - we have had this issue a few times - sometimes browsers do share data that is not for the immediate need - some questions of whether this was consistent with privacy principles and if it is what makes it acceptable / how does it fit together with data minimisation.  Suggestion is to have a general principle of minimization ... added a citation to the TAG document ... after some basic minimsation added a list of ways browsers send data that is not strictly necesasary - e.g. telemtry, updates, prefetching, etc... A few different justifications. In some cases browsers do it because if they dont then there could be a more intrusive mechanism. In some cases users would understand what's happening - and would be fine with it. Aggregation - aggregating or deientifing data - is liekly to shift that balance - people would be more likely to see it as aligned with their goals. There will be some people who won't want that and the best way to establish that is to ask users their own preferences and goals.  Finally - minimization should apply even if you don't think there is harm to the data colleciton - you don't know how it might get re-used later.

Dan: minimization was only a draft finding https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/APIMinimization

Jonathan: should we make it part of this task force/document?

Dan: informative reference is okay, but could also copy/paste if there are key or specific recommendations we want to make. it could have more weight if included in the privacy principles.

Nick: could integrate top 3 recommendations and then cite draft finding for background literature.

Don: On this PR - it would give reviewers of new specs a principle to cite when you do the review - not just the reviewer's judgement. 

Shubhie: overall I like the direction of this PR. Appreciate the flow of it. Makes sense to me. Question on scope and audience - API design has the right audience - the next one "ua's should directly ask.." don't know who the audience is. If this is aimed at web site developers we need to be careful - or is this aimed at UAs?

Nick: I don't think this is guidance for site developers - I think it's useful to describe responsibility - some things will not be the responsibility of the browser.  Browser can't do everything.  We should note thta sites also have responsibilities - and that could be future guidance for API design.  Just need to note the shared responsibility.  

Shubhie: either just remove sites or what nick was suggesting. "APIs should be designed so that sites can..."  

Jonathan: removing sites from the bullet points - removing sites broadens the scope of the telemetry.  

Nick: i think we should include sites ...    List of bullet points is "this is things that browsers to today"...  Including site debugging purposes.  Some people think that's bad.  But this just records this fact.

Jonathan: I think data browser collects for itself vs. data it exposes via APIs to web sites are different. 

Nick: e.g. CSP violation - sent to an endpoint on the site for reporting.  Auditing.

Dan: worth splitting apart the 2 different types of data... Don't think it changes the conclusion though...

Nick: any more examples for the list - where browsers are sharing data - but not to enable a navigation...

Don: PATCG - a bunch of early-stage proposals that this would definitely apply to...

Dan: safe browsing use cases...?

Nick: i think that's pre-downloaded

Jonathan: telemetry is shared... reporting of sites vs debugging issues... DNS ... https... TLS another non site related things.  COnnecting pooling.  Telemetry is shared.

Shubhie: focus on APIs... in that case, I'm looking at .. if a site wants to beacon .. timing data ... are we asking them put up a user prompt?   

Nick: Some browsers might say it's a violation of privacy for browsers to send telemetry; some might say no. One apperoach might be to have it in the [first use] set-up as a question. 

Shubhie: In the context of APIs like timing APIs...  The browsers should seek user preference on behalf of all web sites?

Nick: yes - it user says they're OK with site telemtry. .. 

Jonathan: user agent choice... if you're using a certain browser it might ...  Could that be part of the principle?

Don: Login Status API in Safari and Site Enagement Service in Chromium/Chrome... the browser can tell if the user is interacting with a site they're comfortable with... we could say that when the browser is in a higher trust relationship then it can automatically make decisions...  not hard to tell a site user goes to and never goes to again apart from a site that they show engagement with (signing in, time on site, visits, submitting a form)

Dan: I think we do have the cocept of sites that have more engagement....

Nick: yes - we could have Yes/No, asking user on first use, asking every time... don't think we should proscribe one method. 

Shubhie: instead of "asking" could we rephrase UAs should seek to understand and act / respect users' desires / engagement level ...

Dan: makes sense to me.

Nick: yeah. I can take a pass at that. We can say "one example is you can ask about telemetry - but not the only option".

Shubhie: i think this supercedes #162 

Nick: yes if this has consensus...
