# TAG Privacy Task Force - 19 October 2022

Present: Don, Christine, Amy, Nick, Robin, Dan

Regrets: Pete, Jeffrey

## [PR: different parties in information flows](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/185)

Nick: some privacy threats involve other people... also added pervasive monitoring... disclosure & harrassment... The goal was to say from the outsiet that privacy threa tmodels can be broad. Not just about your web browser and a site. The network, other people with access to the network, your governmnent, other people on a awebsite.

Sam: looks like we shouldn't call these folks attackers out the door. 

Nick: 'attack' in a technical way not that they're evil

Christine: maybe we use the language of the rfc, attack regardless of motivation, but not say they're attackers, but say they have access to the traffic

Dan: important, agree with 'attack' in that guarded context. Using that word has an impact, we want to make sure we have that impact, but .. yes.

[agree to merge with changes]

## [PR: Deception](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/181)

Robin: some changes made... 

Don: TCF dates it.. don't need that

Christine: possible to add a sentence.. about people choosing what information to present - not only the deceptive point but the minimum amount. We want to be able to enable people to not provide accurate information, but we also want to allow them to provide the minimum needed. Eg. these web forms that don't let you progress unless you provide something in a field which is totally irrelevant.

Robin: americans designing address forms where you must include state. But in the cases in which you are being asked something you should be able to lie or to choose what you reply with. The ability to not reply tends to be more of a site issue than a user agent issue. If the site asks for geolocation and I say no, the site might block functionality. This basically makes it possible for me to defend against that by saying you want to force me to provide geolocation I'm going to say I'm in antarctica. Trying to see how to articulate these. In my mind it's an extra layer against sites which don't practice data minimization. Happy to include something, just not sure how.

Christine: we could reference the section on data minimization

Amy: could include with the 'extra layer' framing

Nick: big improvement. Could we go even further towards not having to talk about the truth or factual correctness. The principle that APIs should be designed such that they don't expect to provide the truth about a person. Either in addition or instead of the principle of user agents should support.. APIs should be designed such that they don't expect to provide the truth about a person

Robin: could add that as a second sentence. Feels like a more specific case.

Dan: is this ready to merge?

Nick: asking about.. we wanted to make controversy unnecessary because we don't need to talk about lying, you're justu presenting information, not answering a question truthfully or untruthfully. This will still have quite a bit of text that will prompt that reaction.

Robin: There is always going to be something a bit controversial with this one

Nick: I thought the direction was that we didn't need to get into truth and falsity. The APIs are not about having a true answer.

Robin: the API princple does say that

Dan: I take Nick's point. Could we use a different word that is less emotive?

Don: this is a principle that a lot of publisehrs are likely to completely ignore because they want to run a soft paywayll and the most ovbviou suse of deception is I'm not the person who already read 5 free articles this month. I'm concerned about how to make this in such a way that publishers who go and do the soft paywall thing anyway because they have to can continue to get some value out of as much of the rest of the document as possible. I don't want people to see this and say it's against the principles to have a soft paywall and therefore princples don't matter.

Robin: I don't think it says it's against principles to have a soft paywall. It does say it shoudl be possible to circumvent paywalls. Publisehrs know that people cheat. If some people are going to cheat they're always going to to cheat. This doesn't make things significantly worse. People use private mode all the time, or add a . to the domain name.

Nick: it's not cheating. I'm not lying to a website when I arrive without cookies. That's what I'm trying to get away from. The website says I need you to promise that this thing is true, and I want to say that's not how we design APIs. Partly because we can't help the website to get a true answer, and partly because it's bad for suers. So instead of promising truth, or allowing someone to lie, we say users should present the information they want and no-one should trust that it's a promise

Christine: agree, would hate to think blocking cookies is cheating or wrong.

Robin: I don't disagree. I'm not sure how that translates.

Christine: I don't know if this will work - what about if we talked about self-asserted.. but doesn't really work with cookies

Nick: I'm willing to provide a propsoed edit later this week.

## Triaging

### [Unwanted same-site recognition](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/34)

Robin: we reopened as Christine had issues... 

Nick: suggested edit... 

Robin: I can take it. 

### [Privacy and safety](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/106)

This has been addressed.

### [duty of honesty for users](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/107)

Nick: I'd like to reply - these specs don't provide honesty or deception, just presentation of data. We don't have to get into honesty.

Sam: sounds like a dodge... there is a point

Nick: I don't think it's a dodge. I do think the safety people have a point. I think if you want an assertion about a fact about a user, you aren't going to get that from the browser, you need to get that from someone else. It's not an effectivey safety mechanism, and bad for users.

Robin: I agree. They have a point, but I don't think there's a duty of honesty on users.

Nick: can close it after we've merged the thing about assertions of truth

### [duty of honesty for publishers](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/108)

Nick: I think this is users when they post content

Robin: seems the same as the previous one

### [wanted cross-context recognition](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/109)

Nick: I don't understand how it's related to cross-context recition, but I do think the section on handling multiple privacy principles... Maybe wait for Jeffrey?

### [UA specific](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/112)

Robin: fine closing..

### [reify..](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/118)

Nick: I can take this on, or it could be back burner

### [logged-out website](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/120)

Robin: has a merged PR.. closed

### [aggregate statistics](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/121)

Nick: we have a few things about aggregates...

Robin: we wouldn't want to go into detail about which stats are okay and which aren't. Valuable for a group to do that work on privacy preserving analytics. 

Nick: we have some text about aggregated data..  is that enough?

Dan: wait for Jeffrey

### [sensor APIs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/126)

Dan: have we already done this?

Christine: was meant to be a pointer that as we develop the document what lessons have we learned that we can pull in. A note to us, rather than a specific inclusion. If you think this is enough of a reminder we can close it.

Nick: we don't mention sensors and I think we should

### [consent for data processing](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/129)

Robin: agree it's useful, not sure it's a vital priority

Don: leave it for later

### [influence and manipulation](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/131)

Robin: comment attached that removes it?

Nick: question outstanding

Robin: we could back burner it

### [privacy rules overridden](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/137)

Nick: consider closing, in intro and balancing sections

### [unwanted recognition](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/140)

Dan: keep it open and wait for Jeffrey?

### [ancillary purpose](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/150)

Dan: working on this

### [free from discrimination](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/155)

Dan: kind of out of scope?

Robin: may be, but don't want to dismiss it

### [who has data](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/156)

Nick: will write

### [sensitive and nonsensitive](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/159)

Nick: minimization section .. maybe we still need to work on that, but might be addressed. Should see if Pete is okay with that

### [not wishing to share identity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/163)

Robin: open PR, 166

### [cookie consent](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/164)

Don: once the realised that cookie popups are not required by web standards or the principles or the law, it's not an issue. Blaming all terrible UX on privacy stuff - this is not one of those cases. Can close.
