# TAG Privacy Task Force Minutes - Wed, 13 April 2022

Present: Dan, Jeffrey, Robin, Don, Pete, Tess, Amy, 
Regrets: Christine

## Publicaiton of Public Draft

Covered in TAG call today - we're OK to issue a draft.

## [Refine and clarify the definitions of first and third parties., PR 139](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/139)

Robin, Dan, Tess: LGTM

Don: Slight refinement, the party that controls how a user's interactions are processed. We want to make sure that it's not the people who put together the server or VPS.

Jeffrey: I don't have a great way to say it, the people who made the VPS don't control the content.

Don: Let's say 1P is an RPG and the users are creating the content. The Controller is who controls the logs. It's not the VPS provider, it's not the gamemaster, it's the entity controlling the logs.

Jeffrey: They would also control complaints, take-downs. They have the power. Happy to wait a few days for you to suggest better words.

Robin: Can we merge and get better words later if they happen?

Group Yeah.

`Jeffrey has clicked the button.`

## [Non-retaliation principle, PR 141](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/141)

Robin: I was retaliated against recently and I thought we should say something about that.

Pete: I like this text, but what about the other way around, services that will only offer a service if you give over your data.

Don: I have seen this more broadly in terms of adding tracking to your blog and how it gets listed in an unrelated context.

Jeffrey: We should keep thinking about the question of services that charge the user in data.

Robin: I completely hear the conceptual relationship between pay with data, pay for data, and retaliation. I think 

Pete: cookie polict where if you reject then they tell you to [go away]

Robin: I think that's retaliatory.

Dan: notice from a web page that you must disable your (ad/tracking) blocker?

Robin: if the ad blocker is just a privacy blocker but you're stioll seeing ads which monetize then I think that's not retaliatory - if you're removing the ads from a web page then it's maybe a different story.

**agreed to merge and then open up a new issue for user-on-user retaliation**

## 133

JeffreY: find to merge - Pete can add some more text back in and then make it mergeable. Feel free to merge it next week since I won't be there.

Robin: i think we're rougly aligned - in terms of direction I think this is good. I wouldn't want to ship FPWD with the text you removed still removed.

Pete: I can work the text back in - 

Dan: I'd suggest you do that and then send a notification to us and we can +1 and then you can merge. Then we really have something to discuss on wednesday. I can send around what we have to a few people to flag we're about to do this so we don't blindside anybody. 

## administrivia

Dan: let's think about issuing a fpwd next week...

Robin: I gave a brief overview of the work we've done, focused on how it could be extended, to the CG.. we've been going at this long enough that everyone should know it's coming. Feedback was positive.

Jeffrey: went well, group appreciated the principles, treated them as authoritative. One question about our use of unwanted recognition - filed the issue.

Robin: a lot also comes down to the fact that privacy proves hard to pin down and people wh want to write code want to have something authoritiative, want to know what's fine, acceptable. Some of that was emerging. Okay someone put their foot down, I don't care what they said as long as I can work with it. Industry is feeling bruised.
