# TAG Privacy Task Force Minutes - Wed, 30 November 2022

Present: Dan, Don, Sam, Pete, Wendy, Nick, Pete, Jeffrey, Robin

Regrets: Amy, Christine

## Discuss schedule...

DKA: as far as I know, December is the last month of the year. Are we ready for a transition request or similar call for review? 

Wendy: First we publish a note - and go through the mechanics for getting group to agree - then request wide review and get the group's consensus to publish as a proposed w3c statement, then send to AC for review. So if we're at the beginning stage - what we do we need to do to get the doc into its complete status that we're confident publishing it as a note.  We can have multiple iterations of candidate notes.

[W3C Process: .4.3. Elevating Group Notes to W3C Statement status](https://www.w3.org/2021/Process-20211102/#memo)

Jeffrey: TAG to agree to publish as note

Dan: What's the process we want?
Proposed:

1. TF Agrees it's read to publish as note ->
2. TAG agrees this -> 
3. TAG publishes as a note

If we envision multiple revisions, where does statement publication fit? is that compatible? 

Nick: the step is the wide review... Not that we'd say "we're publishing a note and ready to approve as a statement" we can say "the TAG says it's good enough to be a note and now we would like wide review"

Jeffrey: step 4 is get the AC to review... Step 5 is to publish another note - step 6, a statement.

Nick: I'd encourage wide public review, not just w3c typical wide review... not just AC.

Dan: so, where are we on step 1, TF agreement on readiness?

Jeffrey: While we can always spend more time refining, I think we're near ready to hand off to TAG.

Robin: +1, editors will always want more time, but we need to move forward. Should we try to land a few PRs before? 

Dan: I'd like to land some PRs. Amy has been working on an edit pass as well, of which I'd like to land some.
I can commit to working with Amy on some of the editorial simplification. 

## [vulnerability](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/198)

Don: Christine wrote it - ... I've raised the PR.

Jeffrey: some editorial tweaks.

Pete: to my mind it says anyone can be vulnerable... seems to dilute the usefulness...

Don: People sometimes believe themselves to be in a stable situation and then become vulnerable.  Also applies to refugees.

Jeffrey: but to Pete's point, then they end up in a vulnerable group... I think Pete's right that we don't want to say anyone can be vulnerable - just that there are groups that people could be surprised to find themselves in... 

Don: but data processing decisions are made in the time before they became vulnerable.  

Pete: great point - the principle text should be "give people control" i think the right principle could be "assume that people are always vulnerable or could become vulnerable and design accordingly."

[discussion]

Nick: I think we're getting at a challenging part of the text... proactive principle is harder. I think the graceful degredation thing is useful but doesn't capture everything... 

Jeffrey: we need an extra principle... the thing about children - being able to delegate decisions about privacy protections ... we can add those in seperate PRs... 

Pete: we should avoid ... we should design APIs with all data is very sensitive...

Robin: is it "UAs and sites should be designed with the assumption that their users are vulnerable." 

Jeffrey: don't use slides to let the user configure whether they are vulnerable... Because if they become vulnerable then they won't be able to reset all the sliders...  Default of the app is the respect vulnerability.

Nick: default safe - and graceful degredation.. 

Jeffrey: maybe a space for a panic button in UIs... It happens when you go viral on twitter or when you get doxxed. All of a sudden you need to lock things down.  Having the app assume vulnerabiltiy might mean "never make anything public" which I don't think is what we mean.

Wendy: It may be that this PR assumes a piece of the argumnent without stating it - vulnerable people need more protections... But then it's saying "anyone can become vulnerable" - so protections need to be available for all ... maybe a little bit more signaling of what this is responding to.

Pete: Can take it on as a to-do for next week.  Ok to merge this and I will work on it.

Nick: can we work on parenting/ guardianship... assigned to jeffrey and christine... 

Jeffrey: I can take a stab at that by next week.

*merged*

## [harassment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/195)

*bumped to next week*

## [Cross-Device Comms](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/186)

Nick: Editorial changes - section changed dramatically - identity on the web.  So it's hart to add this additional example.

Robin: still worth it?

Nick: yes. just don't know ... the PRs that got merged for Identity - have made that more confusing... 


[reviewing 2.1]

Robin: maybe an additional framing intro paragraph: "There are multiple threats to user privacy  ... "

Wendy: it could use a reference to anonymity and pseudonimity... [added PR](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/199)

Robin: i could do an *edit pass* - i don't think it's extensive... 
 
## [new apis based on old ones](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/182)

*bumped to next week*

## [Anonymity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/199)

Wendy: added this... 

Jeffrey related to [#166](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/166/). 

Dan: maybe that was too complex?

Wendy: sometimes people don't want a continuous identity attached - "i want to see what this search page looks like without these characteristics"... 

Jeffrey: i have no objections

Robin: Ship it.

## [harassment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/195)

*bumped*

