# TAG Privacy Task Force Minutes - Wed 30 March 2022

Present: Dan, Christine, Jeffrey, Wendy, Pete, Nick, Don, Tess

## [First and Third Parties](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/139)

Jeffrey: Our def of 1st party hand't changed - i rewrote it - related to [Don's PR](https://github.com/privacycg/first-party-sets/pull/56) which adjusts 1st party def.

Tess: case with a .com and a big facebook iframe - i think you don't mean that facebook is a first party where it's iframed on someone else's web site?

Jeffrey: if it's clear...

... if you mislead the user then you're not the first party - because they don't think they're interacting with you.

Don: if facebook runs an iframe on the nytimes that is faking the nytimes then wouldn't the nytimes have the responsibility to kick that iframe off the site?  In that case the first party could be the nytimes because they're facilitating the use of their branding.

Nick: the party the user intends to interact with is the nyt but the 2nd part of the def would not be true because it's not the new york times.  Needs to have 2 parts

Jeffrey: they think they're interacting with and correct

Tess: i understand the idea but needs to be tied into reality...

Pete: Part of it is understanding who you're interacting with and part of it is who you actually interact with?

Nick: if there's a first party widget then you're interacting with e.g. facebook intentionally...

Dan: place for the URL bar?

Jeffrey: if we say "that the browser communicated to the user"...

Dan: browser playing a role is something important here.

Jeffrey: easier if we stop talking about having multiple first parties - the entity the address bar says they are interacting with is the first party.

Tess: the location bar does feel important. The browser has a good idea what first party is. Hopefully the user does too.

Christine: I'm wondering if we could avoid first party / not first party. If we left aside the policy audience how would you address it?

Tess: i would talk about the origin of the top level browsing context.

Christine: could we describe that in policy-ese?

Tess: I think it makes sense to have a parenthetical ...

Nick: could we say that it "includes" should at least include a top level browsing context.

Tess: we don't have consensus about FPS. ... status quo is that it doesn't... It would be fine to write the docu in the status quo...

Don: I want to avoid spooky action at a distance - where by making some kind of acquisition or hard to understand M&A deal suddenly 2 completely different domains would have a connection that is not understandable to the user.  E.g. how many brands owned by LVMH.  Most people don't understand corporate ownership relationships... if there is going to be a FPS then the only reasonable way to do it is to say "which domains are obviously the same to the end user" - e.g. google.es and google.com are obviously the same google.

Tess: what about the phishing case ... google.sketchy...

Dan: can we come up with a def that doesn't preclude FPS or FPS-like mechanisms but doesn't call for them?

Don: e.g. google and youtube - as they exist today it's not clear they are the same party so would not be eligible for FPS. In the future they might change and go through a multi-step process to get the 2 domains accepted into an FPS (including a site redesign) ... in FPS, an independent enforcement entity would have to check that the set is valid...  We don't need to get into too much detail here (what percentage of users need to correctly identify common parties?), just have to make it clear that the party is the single thing the user believes they're interacting with.

Wendy: we do more talking about relations between parties - not about a "first party" - we may be trying to stuff more into this definition than we need for use in the document.

Tess: how "load bearing" is the term?

Jeffrey: "the first party is accountable for their data use" - i think that's useful.  It may be load bearing elsewhere.

Pete: something about intent missing?

Jeffrey: definitely something important about intent.   I think intent belongs in the other places...

Dan: we need to include the concept of **origin** in this def.

Nick: sometimes people get redirected... that needs to be OK.

Jeffrey: it's an important consider.

Nick: the first party is the party you're on...

Jeffrey: first party interactions as different from the first party that you're seeing... 3rd party interactions are less trusted, get to do less stuff with the person's data.

Nick: you're the first party to an interaction if ...   third party to an interaction is separate ..

Dan: phishing example - sometimes the 1st party is malicious and not the intended 1st party - they're still the 1st party.

[discussion on origin]

[discussion on interactions]

Jeffrey: a "click" on a web site is on a first party - but maybe if it's on a "like" button then it's not... what entitlements does a first party interaction get.

Jeffrey: in the navigational tracking discussion....

Tess: user activation stuff - scrolling is not considered interaction.. even though there are scroll-linked animations... it would be easy to come up with a

Pete: interactions... an action coming from a user - a 3rd party vs a 1st party interaction -

Nick: you're a 3rd/1st party "to" an interaction - but some party is the 1st party to an interaction....

Pete: i can understand for certain types of interactions...  Pages are soup.

Jeffrey: I will go away and attempt to add interaction.

## [notification principle](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/132/files)

## [reworking private data section into discrete principals](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/133)

[reviewing pete's proposed text](https://cryptpad.fr/code/#/2/code/edit/nMUkGXAFKa0J9DgLE7vUfc7H/)

Jeffrey: the point in point 3 rules out e.g. browser telemetry.

Nick: a set of criteria?

Jeffrey: i don't have a set of criteria...  As a first cut i suggest removing "or the user's environment" i think it's OK.

Pete: i don't feel super strongly about it.

[some debate on this]

Pete: valid user name file and a charater unanticipated --

Jeffrey: the user did type it in this case...

Nick: concerned about "hops" - hoping we won't need that concept.  smaller / larger number of hops... I'd like a more precise concept.  Yes a spectrum .. i won't know what to tell people.

Dan: related to privacy labour?

Pete:

Jeffrey: chain of reasoning instead of hops?

Pete: data collector's reasoning.

Nick: reasonably anticipated and related to the user's goals... hops or chain of reasoning is an illustration of that... should be reasonably anticipated and directly related to user's goals.

Pete: like that

Nick: Ping attribute on hyperlinks - was intended to have user transparency - but not directly related to user's goals. But very widely adopted feature.

