# TAG Privacy TF Minutes 

Wed, 16 February 2022

Present: Christine, Robin, Jeffrey, Wendy, Amy, Pete, Dan, Nick, Tess, Sam

## Minutes

### [Added notifications principles](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/132)

Dan: nobody likes this I guess....

Nick: shared the concern about first visit. SOmetimes that's annoying but I don't think it's the firstness of the visit that's the problem. If it's my first time to a site and I want notifications then great. But only sites I go to a lot should be able to send notifications? It's more that there are cases where people are being badgered.

Dan: as someone who is a proponant of push notifications, I have found the most often misuse I see is when I hit a page you are immediately asked for a push notification permission with no context whatsoever. You visited this blog for the first time obviously you want thi sin your notifications... that's really an antipattern tha tshould be called out. Maybe it's not about first visit, could be more nuanced, but appropriateness of time or context of request. But something I've spent a lot of time talking to people about. Don't do that. If you want to behave nicely with push notificatins then ask the user nicely and explain what they'll get and how to turn it off and what you won't be sending them. I see it so often it should be called out.

Wendy: How much implicit user modelling is based on the 'first' visit.. 

Nick: could we say more about those reasons why you think this has been so annoying? Might be a good place to explain it's really annoying when you initiate this prompt in these situations. If it's about immediate access or lack of context or maybe there's more to it. Lack of a relationship. Why is it so annoying? Useful to write down.

Dan: I like the text Don wrote. Websites should not request permission to send notifications when the user is unlikely to have sufficient knowledge to make an informed response. Isn't just about 'first visit', yeah. I could incorporate that.

Sam: The parallel might be.. a positive example.. video conferencing site immediately asks permission to use camera and mic. THe question was what's actionable here? Anything actionable for browsers?

Dan: one thing for browsers and one thing for sites. UA should help users control notifications and other interruptive UI. About providing user interface that allows you to audit which websites or origins are ..

Sam: to control the misbehaviour

Dan: in a reasonable way. I'll try to rework with feedback in mind. Feel free to add stuff.

Pete: I made an effort to start merging the unwanted profiling section. Not ready, but agenda for next week.

### [Collective principle](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/130)

Nick: is this intended to speak to privacy of other people, people you tak ephotos with?

Robin: I love that question, slept on it. That is actually a separate thing, but should be a thing. What this principle is about is when you do things that have collective impact, and that impact could be positive. When you share your contacts with a website you're violating someone elses' privacy and the brwoser should not facilitate it. That's a spearate issue but we sould capture it. WEbsites should not be doing that. If there's ever a contacts api it should deal with that. Sharing contacts is not a collective issue, it's bad for every individual person.

Dan: when I'm reading the principle I don't understand it.

Robin: that may be a problem.

Jeffrey: I think ti's a wording problem. The core principle is data processing that has collective consequences must be governed by collective rules

Dan: very passive voice. Could it be reworded to say which actors must do something. Websites must ensure that data that is collected is done under a collective rules or something like that? Rather than a requirement on nobody.

Robin: correct. This is a requirement on everybody. Happy to make it active. 

Dan: right now it's a requirement on the data itself, or on the processing

Robin: see what you mean. Didn't know if it made sense to break out websites, browser..

Dan: all actors, dealing with the data

Nick: An example where we do have some legitimate collective rules for collective privacy issue on the web?

Robin: specifically on the web, the examples are not directly.. you're asking about cases when it would be legitimate to get data, or in general where this applies?

Nick: any time where we decided something was legitimate or illegetimate, but on the web

Robin: the classic example is if people of a protected class share the fact they're a protected class individually, such that you can analyse their behaviour. Then from analysis of their behaviour you can infer that someone else is of that protected class due to their behavioiur, then you can discriminate based on that inference. Eg. targeting hiring ads. Another one is deciding that, eg. discussions in ? CG right now, for attribution purposes it's okay to share some informationa cross contexts, and that sliver of informaiton is of the nature 1000 people visited that website and 30 converted on the other end. You're learning about each and everyone of those people. That they are 3% chance that someone converted. Small noisy information, butw e are collectively as a standards body saying it's okay, becuase we think the harms are low and collective benefit is worth it

Christine: Is this collective privacy, or inferences from one individual could have a privacy impact on other individuals. Is that different or the same thing? The way I think about it is it's different because if I heard correctly, if you have a situation of collective privacy you have a collective rule that applies. hwereas if this happens and something subsequent happens you have rules for the first instance, then rules that say but you can't use that information to make inferences about other people, or you can't aggreagate it. Not one rule, ight make multiple rules to enable something, and to protect others.

Robin: I think it makes sense. I wonder if the second part is necessarily targeted at an individual because it could also be leveraged against groups as cohorts, so .. trying to think if that fits within your quesiton. Maybe this is a principle where I list three types of things that require collective decision.. could be broken into 3 principles and saying there are different ways of handling these. One resource that's worth reading for this is the relational data governance paper by [???]. Good examples in terms of the differenes it makes of privacy violation between water corp and water org. One is measuring water consumption to sell things, and the other is doing it at the municiple level for water quality purposes. One legit without consent, and the other not.

Pete: nervous about some of this text. Seems to start from basis about legitimate business interest, privacy on the back foot. May be the case that certain types of fraud processing are impossible to do if you have to ask everyon but the implication might not be don't ask them, but an inappropriate way of ding anti fraud work

Robin: that's the tension I'm getting that. we tend to think of there only two answer to that question. Always yes and dn't ask any questions, or you have to make people cnsent to it. This is saying there is a third way where instead of leaving it up to the individual processor or people we get together in the room and say what is appropriate for fraud processing and what is inappropriate, put guard rails around it, and as a bunch of standards people with civil society reps, we've established that this tiny bit of informatin is safe to share compared to the impact it might have on people and the value it brings so we've wdecdied that's okay

pete: I appreciate the value. I would expect the principle to give guidence on what things fall into which buckets, not just lay out the options

Jeffrey: the principle is to govern thing well rather than make particular decisions

Pete: but it should tell us how to govern things well

Jeffrey: it does say this is a list of collective governance startegies that are legit in various situations. But whih situation each is legit in is a difficult question

Pete: seems more like a toolkit than a principle

Robin: the appropriate governance.. it's going to be impossible to say for all collective situations. If we're talking about the whole web.. if yu're living in some dangerous plae maybe the way this is decided is with guns drawn at sunrise which is also inappropriate method of governance in some circumstances. We cant say this is right governane. We can mention ethical web principles and all that.

Pete: I appreciate you can always peel the onion one more time. I still think to say that sometimes things should be done at the group level, but the principle should be these sites should be done at the group level

Dan: put this in an issue, and land the text?

Pete: I have the concern, but not to slow down. I can summarise in an issue.

Nick: I'm not sure. We could do it in issues. I feel like I don't really understand where this is going. I think we should clarify before we land.

Dan: let's not land this, let's continue to discuss

Robin: I'm happy to discuss more but itw ould help for me to understand the issues better. I don't feel I have material to answer. I'm happy to clarify. I need some input.

Pete: principle should guide your decision making in certain places. Listing more options doesn't achieve that.

Don: I added a suggested source. Jessica Dawson paper. The recommendations that she makes in there are in the case of this paper, for what the US dept of defence should do about military personnnel and that is an organisation that is supposed to act in the interest of its users in some ways. The target of this principle may be not so much user agents or sites, but any org that is a device owner or some other org through which users can act collectively

Robin: interesting angle

Nick: maybe two things covered... one there are some times where decisions or software architectures (ua or other parties) have an effect on the privay of collectives. Even though this particular API won't reveal information about a particular user, it will reveal about a group of users and that has potential privacy harms because we have a view of privacy that collectives have privacy and we can give speciic exampes, demographic group. That seems like one. Another one is when there are some privacy decisions where we dn't think individual decision making is going to be a way to address them. These might be cases of fraud or default settings or something where we don't think individual users turning this off and on is the right way to protect their privacy and so we think tere are going to be some issues where we need collective governance, and we give specific examples. not to collect the collective but these are some things where an individual can't deicde, so we provide principles on how to do more collective decisions

Robin: thinking that should be two principles

Nick: this is two forks and probably two principles, maybe more than two. Conflating them is confusing.

Robin: can try to work on that

Nick: on the second fork, the fraud example might be good. Another I hear sometimes is the ping attribute on anchor text. I think this is a privacy conern. The argument seems to be better for user privacy if by default user agents are willing to send async pings about clicks. If we dn' thave them turning it on by default all websites are going to use cumbersome redirects. But bad for individual users becuase they dnt' know when their data is sent. But we're saying theres' a collective decions here rather than an individual one. WE could give guidenc eon how to make those collective decisions.

Jeffrey: great example. Ecosystem effect. If browser behave a certain way, websites are written a certain way, and some browsers can make exceptions, compared to browsers not having ping and websites being written so nobody can avoid the redirects. That kind of ecocsystem tradeoff needs to be decided by a governance body that decides both sides of the question

Robin: and fails to reach consenssu.... if enough people opt out sites wn't use it anyway

Dan: this specific issue feels like something a bit out of scope for this document. WHih is bou tputting requirements on .. actually maybe it isn't out of scope. If it's in a spec with a normative req on browsers that they must respect this thing. It sholud be something here..

Robin: very much in scope. On the table right now. They need to decide whether it's okay for them to say they'll share a little information by default and that's okay nad not be absolutely secret. A question we should have an answer for. Keep feedback coming.

Pete: pointing out that there are ecosystem effects isn't a princple, but saying it's appropriate for browsers to make decisions on behalf of users in this kind of situation is a princple. Not saying I agree, but is an example of a principle that would fit. But pointing out existance of tradeoffs doesn't seem like a principle.

### [Consent principles and some related edits to the consent section](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/128)

Don: Filled in some what I think should be pretty obvious stuff about consent. I did take out the word 'rare' from the consent section early on because is it rare relative to what and for what kind of sites? Some sites might be a category where people expect to provide consent. 

Dan: I see a couple of comments from Jeffrey..

Nick: agree. rare and highly specific didn't seem quite right. There was a motivation for having that text, which is we've seen consent abused on the web pretty widely. Maybe the intention was it should be rare compared to how many companies are currently interpreting consent. Not sure how to say that.

Robin: that was the intent. I do know there are ases where it's neessary, but shouldn't be everywhere

Don: I did put in an actor should not interrupt a person to request theri consent. That is a little more, taes a bigger step than it's rare because we're on eof the rare sites that need it

Pete: I like this format. Bullet point principles makes it clear.

Dan: regret isn't consistent with erroneously giving consent.. not that they regret, but they didn't intend to give it..

Jeffrey: what does it mean to erroneously give it? We're not talking about misclicks. Later they decide they actually didn't want to have given consent. We also talk about true preferenes above.

Don: fine with regret later. There is the idea of what processing does the person have in mind as what they would be willing to consent to in the use of the site and does the consent interface make it hard to do that, and have that different from regret later. You could end up reading the article and say oh the author of that article is a jackass and I regret they have any information on me whatsoever

Jeffrey: I like the point about consent they didn't realise they were giving contrary to what they were expecting to be giving. Not tied to any particular wording.

Nick: seems liek we don't have a notion of informedness? Does seem as a legal and as a practical matter, one of the problems with consent is we're asking users to answer questions when they don't understand what is going on, and then saying they said yes. One response is if you didn't get consent from an informed user then you didn't actually get consent

Robin: we do have some text about individual autonomy that say speople have limited intellectual resources an dtime ... susceptible to manipulatin. That might not be exactly right but it's in the vicinity. Problem with defining informed is you have to set up an rct with different messages and different people and shee who can say what was goin on..

Nick: might be easier than true intent. More specific. 

Jeffrey: tied to the comment about true intent. It's plausible to have a term for what we mean there, but we need to define it. Maybe true intent is fully informed with enough time to think about the consequences. What Robin said around malleable preferences. I think we should define and refer to it here.

Christine: what Nick said, ascertaining a person's true intent is perhaps very difficult. One possibility is to instead of thinking about how do we characterise the user being informed, perphaps this doc we could think about what are the things that the various actors could do that would help ensure that it's more likely that a user is able to give informed consent. Approach the problem from the other side. Being honest for a start. Short and sweet, in time. 

Robin: I like that approach. It's in the pathologies of digital consent that there's a passage on how to do it right that we might be able to use. From the perspective of the entity requesitng consent.  We could land this PR with open issues.

Dan: Could we get this pR to a state where we could land it and then open an issue on the issue of 'informed'?

Don: what are the pieces we need to get done?

Jeffrey: none of my comments are blocking, see what you like and merge it and I can file issues about the rest

Nick: "check what consent they have given".. I like this but I'm not sure I've ever seen it

Tess: one thing that comes to mmind is in a browser if you've granted a site permissions to use a mic or access location there's browser UI that allows you to find that out, but I've not seen that on a site

Jeffrey: a bunch of oauth stuff does it. All the people you've granted oauth permissions to

Robin: the document says if that consent is cnsistent there should be a vivid indicator showing its' transmitted at all times and so the person can switch it off

Don: (comments applied, PR merged)

### [Unwanted information principle](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/127)

Robin: wrote text

Wendy: looks plausible

Robin: removed 'principles' from the title so the toc looks better.

Christine: are you including consent popups in your unwanted information (a little tongue in cheek)

Dan: consent popups should be covered in the sections for what consent is being given for. When I wrote the thing on notifications giving consent to a push notification is diffeent from giving consent to geolocation. They both need to be discussed but I'm not sure whether it fits under this category

Robin: the perspective from which I wrote this is mostly to cover dickpics and spam. IN broad categories. Consent popups could count as spam to a certain degree. I would tend to see them more in the notifications section or section on principles for consent. Broad principle of modal interruptive consent dialogs are never appropriate

Jeffrey: Don has a section on consent that talks about this

Don: also realised the consent issue might be more complicated on real world sites. I filed issue 129, sometimes sites need to get consent for processing of your personal infirmation but at the same time it might also want to get a copyright licsense for redistributing content that you create or upload to the site. If we don't disambiguate consent for the stuff you do on the site from consent on how the site handles your information we might get some confused responses when people say I have to get consent otherwise I'm breaking copyright law.

Jeffrey: principles for consent may be similar. Asking context when the user has done soething that needs consent. Crosses data processing and copyright, consent to send someone mail or whatever. I suspect we can write the principles so they work for everything, even though this is a privacy document and doesn't have copyright license in scope, the principle is pretty common

Dan: let's consider this in isolation. Is it okay to drop in? I'll +1.

Robin: if people are fine with it I can merge

Nick: nice to have a list of mitigations here. Might be able to continue to revise that. Useful to have those options there. And gives prompts for spec authors, we're putting a MUST requirement that they need to consider unwanted information so having mitigations of features to include when they're considering unwanted information. +1 if we continue editing, great start.

Robin: Jeffrey want to talk about the comment you made?

Jeffrey: principles should probably start with the should bit and eave explanatory text outside of the principle. Moved it so the principle starts with a should. Reasonable to have a sentence of introduction before the principle.

### [Add section on principles for vulnerable people](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/114)

Tess: Robin already has a PR with some preliminary work. Havne't had a chance to do more.

Robin: no-one really liked my PR. Override it.

### [Discuss appropriate use of data to prevent abuse.](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/105)

### [(non)Principles on Influence and Manipulation](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/131)

