# TAG Privacy Taskforce - 14 December 2022

Present: Jeffrey, Pete, Robin, Christine
Regrets: Amy, Dan, Don, Nick, Sam

## [missing ref on harassment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/206)

Trivial addition to the bibliography.

**merged**

## [Guardians](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/203)

Jeffrey: did everything we discussed last week... one suggestion from DON...

Dan: looks good

Robin: looks good

Don: thumbs up

Peter: thumbs up

**merging**

## [Device owner / user rights](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/202)

Jeffrey: little bit of further change to have these cross-ref eathother... but we should merge first.

Robin: [i think it's good]

Jeffrey: a little bit of editing to incorporate the cross-references.

*agreement to merge*

**merging**

## [Identity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/201)

Robin: I took all of jeffrey's changes... or made equiv changes... 

Jeffrey: looks good...

Dan: lgtm

**merging**

Robin: closing https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/186 

## [Try to explain how new APIs can or can't be justified based on old ones.](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/182)

Jeffrey: I made changes i think it's ready to merge, 

Christine: *wording change on principle* - access to the information acceptable... 

Robin: this looks good.

**merged**


## Agreement to publish a draft to TR

**so resolved**

https://www.w3.org/TR/privacy-principles/

Dan: proposal is that we issue a draft in 1st week of Jan...

Robin: maybe do review pass before updating TR?

Dan: I think we should do it now and then again in Jan...

**general agreement to put it on auto-update**

