# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 31 August 2022

Present: Dan, Shubhie, Amy, Robin, Don, Nick, Pete

## [Add a principle to support deception](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/181)

Robin: we were saying we don't have something that clearly says browsers should help their user deceive sites and dwell in obscurity. One feature I've wanted for browsers forever is the ability to just set geolocation instead of having the choice being provide nothing or the truth, to say it doesn't matter. And for a number of other things.I swear I've given you notification abilities, so they won't prompt me, but it doesn't work.

Nick: I share your interest in that feature. Geolocation is a great example. What's important about that is deception, it's user control over the information that they want to present. It's not so much that I want to lie, but I'm interested in this other location. That's going to apply to most of these cases. The directed identifier, anonymous email address. It's I'm chosing the email address I want to present, not giving a fake. That will create this conflict with trust and safety teams; I don't think that's important about this feature, we should let users choose the identity they want to present. Seems like there's a truth and falsity. It's not that there's individual truth, but that users get to control what they want to present.

Shubhie: Nick said it well, +1

Dan: +1

Robin: +1

Shubhie: Grounding it in privacy. The framing of deception. How does that relate to privacy? The way Nick frames it helps ground it. Giving a site a directed identifier makes sense. IP address makes sense. Framing in those terms helps our cause. Thanks for working on this. Just not the wording right now.

Don: agree with this principle. Set location to get language practice. Set location to a country that gets better Twitter moderation. But realistically we've got the copyright and licensing issues that a lot of sites have to deal with for their content and they may have to legally say they can't show you something unless you're in a country where they're allowed to. it's a privacy principle that sites legally might not be able to do.. so say where they're allowed to? Or something..

Robin: can update. But don't want to wash out the lying use case. Direct feedback in comments.

## [Provide clearer definition and reference for de-identification](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/180)

Robin: to address issue in which Christine and Nick had suggested a reference and some changes to the definition to deidentified data. The references all seemed to be saying the same thing, so took one. 

Nick: that's helpful

**MERGED**

## [Make the impact data combination on de-identification clearer](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/179)

Robin: issue from Ian. Minor change to clarify .. if you have the number 9 and you combine it with the phonebook that makes the number 9 personal data. Wants to make it clearer that it's through the combination that you reidentify that makes it matter.

Dan: lgtm

Nick: there's going to be some data that itself doesn't identify someone but it's about a person who could be identified. That seems like personal data. 

Robin: the idea that this tries to capture si how would you identify them? if I have a file that says 6'2" that might be personal data about you. But there's no identifier or nothing else, even if someday I come in and take that file and drop it on my dossier of Nick Doty, it doesn't mean that it's personal data. You want to get to something where it's only personal data if for instance it lists a lot of your characteristics. or there's an identifier, or something like that, where I could reasonably say this thing could become reidentifiable. 

Nick: the current user or user1234 is 6'2 is personal data, even if you couldn't take that and find out my name.

Robin: with the definitions we have that is personal data no matter what. There's an identifier. This is really just for the case where I have something that says 6'2 and member of privacy taskforce of the TAG, and I can use a list of members of the privacy tf and guess who is 6'2. that kind of attack

Nick: sounds good

Robin: can merge?

Pete: +1

**MERGED**

## [editorial pass on personal data principles](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/178)

Amy: 2nd section had 3 principes, vs 3rd section had 0 principles... TAG Styleguide says to lead with core message which is the principle.  Idea of one principle for section.

Robin: looking at the updates you made in #177 it's clearer... so I now lean towards one principle per section, lead with the principle.  It felt more structured that way.

Amy: I looked at the section at the end to list nicely.

Nick: I love the "one sentence"...  and seperate sections... This is a re-write of a section that we're we-writing substantively.

[discussion on process]

Nick: data min and ancillary uses will go in here.. 

Amy: will pause.

## [edit pass on id principle](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/177)

Amy: on the first principle.  Robin left some feedback that looks good... Purely editorial... reshuffled.  Substance has not changed. 

Robin: really clarified things.. just tiny nit picks.

Dan: I'll do a review.

Pete: should vs. will... in context of helping user "prove tone site..." (may vs will?)

... will leave comments.

Amy: we've had some discussion on voice - read like a spec or like a set of principles. My main concern is consistency.  We shouldn't have a mix of should / wills.  My instinct would be to write it as aspirational principles.  

Robin: it sounds good to me - being more asprational principles vs must/may/should.

Shubhie: tieing back to audiences : people building the web platform - should answer this question. This should give guidance to that audience.

## [ancillary uses](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/170)

Nick: we're close

Pete: I think there is a fundamental disagreement about what's appropriate in the document, i'ts not editorial any more. There's one point of view that says this is a goal that user has when they interact with sites that they should assist them in some way. And one that says telemetry is not a user goal and warrants another set of protectiosn or restrictions. The first concern we had was too many consent dialogues, so I scrubbed that to orient around user goal. That seemed to not address the concern.

Shubhie: there's a few different threas here. What are we trying to do with this principle? is it about data minimizationn or ancillary users, or user consent and awareness? Can we be clear about the goal of the principle? One comment is about separating about separating user consent, maybe we have a disagreement there. The other one is .. we're saying personal data, but then talks about ancillary uses, then talks about basica telemetry then targeting and ads, then location permission exapmle. These are quite different. Benefit from knowing what the goal is. Makes sense to call out telemetry for ancillary uses, and being clear about what telemetry is or is not, and writing a principle that is useful for websites and UAs.

Nick: on the goals - this section has multiple principles in it. One point was to talk about data minimization, why we do that. Why that's a goal. Some things about designing APIs for that minimization. Because it seemed like a relevant thing that came up to also have guidence about ancillary uses and guidence about respecting peoples goals and preferences when it came to ancillary uses. So those could be different sections if that would help. I think it was to have a goal about data minimization generally, and because ancillarly uses comes up with data minimization, that as well. 

Don: thinking about uses and audience for this principle. There are probably going to be IT advice or how to or review sites that do a how good is your web browser review service journalism pieces. Those would be done under time pressure, so reviewers are going to look at the privacy principles, how well does this browser comply with them? When I read this i think about how would these look as checkbox items in a consumer reports review with a filled in circle or empty circle or whatever.

Pete: Data minimization is important but it's different to mention> Whatever you are collecting, collect the minimum to accomplish yoru goal. But the original PR was what goals are appropriate for data collection? User goals? Is it appropriate for software running on the husers behalf to collect data that has no immediate connection to the user goals. Consent may or may not be important, privacy labour may or may not be. Is it appropriate for the browser to colelct data an send it to somebody where the user does nto participate and may not want.

Dan: if we can't come to agreement - we did set out we agreed one of the ground rules was we should take it out of scope for the document. That's a thing we can do. I'd like to say something we can agree on.

Shubhie: makes sense. We can probably write.. seems uncontroversial to have a general principle around data minimization. No disagreement on that point. Separate one around ancillary uses. We can decide if we have a separate principle and go in one direction or the other. Be more crisp about differentt ypes, give guidence on telemetry. Or go on the other direction and not get into the details. To me it goes back to the audiences of the doc. Who are we speaking to?

Robin: I like the idea of breaking this down into smaller chunks if we can.

Dan: we can make progress on the data minimization

Robin: we can always ask for further input from the community...

Dan: can you split this up? Into a couple of PRs? One focussing on data minimization? And isolate the stuff we don't agree on?

Pete: I'm in favour of asking community, to get a distribution of opinions. We don't have orgs in w3c that represent browser users.

Dan: I meant wider community

Nick: Some of us try to represent users. I'm happy to take another pass. I do think those ancillary things are separate, I can do that. I guess I would like to remind us that we are qutie close on telemetry. Browsers and sites use telemetry right now. There are meaningful suggestions we can give - like a first run dialog about what they watn to do in general and using that to make decisions about specific cases

Dan: agree. If we can get consensus on those points we should put them in.

Robin: I don't think we're very far, but we dont' have consensus. The idea of breaking it down is a way of getting there by chipping away at it.  The idea of breaking apart data minimization makes ancillary uses about minimization fo purposes? There might be an angle there. I'm not pessimistic.

Shubhie: Robin had a [list](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/368#issuecomment-1143867934) of ... separating the second PR.. seemed like a good starting point for thinking about telemetry. Agree if there's interest in having that?

## Audience

Shubhie: I [wrote some basic list](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/172#issuecomment-1225836221), I can try to flesh it out.. dividing into two, primary and secondary. Targeting tldr to primary. Browsers, spec authors. Can add as many as we want in secondary. Any feedback on this? Then drill into primary audience.

Dan: i see things for including civil society groups, technologists at EFF, people working in the topic of web privacy. Privacy advocates within organisations. Privacy officers. This is a good list.

Nick: also think it's good. Primary and secondary idea.. yes we want lots of people to use and review this, but some things ar egoing to be more directed. Great way to get us past that sticky question. My thinking is that the primary goal should be for design of the web platform. I think that's where we're getting spec writers and reviewers. I wonder if we could try to make that emphasised over browsers? I think putting browsers first might lead to some confusion. People who work on brwosers but who dont' work on standards, I'm not sure htis is going to be that useful for them. Could be read as saying the browsers are the people who make all the decisions about how web features work. We want to say the whole multistakehodler community is working on these new web features through standards and specs, and browsers are prominent implementers of that

Robin: agree. should be defined more in terms of people who are making the fundamental parts of the web. SEcond audience is peole who need to understand hwo the web works in terms of privacy. Can be very broad. Policy makers. Also have to explain basic thing sto lawyers who are tryign to do good stuff and need to understand how the law intersects with the principles byehind the technolgoy, I hope this document could be useful to them as well.

Dan: Would agree, but not couch it as people building the web. People who build websites would say they re part of the people who build the web. W're talking about web platform. That's a term W3C uses. Something like people building thew eb platform itself, such as .. then I agree calling out browsers probably we should be saying implementers of web technologies, including browsers, but anybody implementing web tech. Journalists fits in to the secondary audience.

Don: realistically a lot of people just pay attention to this stuff when something bad happens. If there's a news story about a data breach, in the fourth paragraph of the story it will say example.com did not follow the privacy principles.. that will get people to pay attention to them who would never read them otherwise.

Shubhie: makes sense. Assuming if we get good alignment on a core set of principles, that's a base line for browser privacy, and eahc broser can write their own privacy principles? if they are cmopeting on privacy they are much more aggressive on certain things, or talk about the tradeoffs they take. This can be the common ground. Each browser doesn't have to justify things in this document. Is that a reasonable way to look at it?

Nick: I don't think this would replace the privacy workthat idfferent products, including browsers, are going to need to do. There's lot of privacy questions that come up when you use a browser. This isn't going to cover all of those. This is covering web stuff. Maybe still useful to get that common agreement. I'm not imagining this will tell you all the privacy things for building a browser

Shubhie: browsers are putting out their own things about privacy.. this could be something to base off

Dan: helps to inform, but will be very much a legal document

Shubhie: someone mentioned lawyers and regulators. I was a bit hesitant to put those in the audience. Makes it more sensitive..

Robin: I agree. I think that's sort of what we've been striving for. INcreasingly we're finding outselves in positions where you can't easily solve a problem with just tech or just regulation. When we try we end up with bad solutions. SO build a common language that we can have a conversation across the architectural regulation vs legal reuglation boundaries and agree on terms and goals. Or disagree, but know what we're talking about. Doesn't mean this document governs law at all. The idea is to help build that bridge.

Shubhie: that's what I was trying to say. That baseline for that.

Robin: that's fine. As Nick notes, 'policymakers' is fine. It's neutral.

Shubhie: will work on PR






