# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 3 August 2022

Present: Dan, Don, Pete, Nick, Christine, Shubhie, Wendy
Regrets: 

## [Ethical Principles Tweak](https://github.com/w3ctag/ethical-web-principles/pull/85)

Dan: TAG f2f (dinner with timbl): Amy, Hadley, and I worked on a change to the ethical web principles. Changing the name of the principle, for consistency, to active voice. "The web must be secure, and respect peoples' privacy" vs "Security and privacy are essential." Want to make sure it doesn't appear to be lowering TAG's emphasis on S&P.  Please leave review comments. 

Nick: Sounds good. I like the introduction of the word "respect." From a standards perspective, MUST is as strong as it gets. 

Wendy: Sounds good to me.

Dan: we welcome other feedback

Don: +1 to must in the standards context.

## [ancillary uses](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/170)

Dan: Anything to talk about re ancillary uses?

Nick: Apologies, no revised text yet. Any thoughts on how we might come toward agreement?

Shubhie: point of contention - being vague about using the UA make decision on behalf of the user.

Nick: "UA should seek to work on behalf of the user / UA could use heuristics to make decisions" vs. "no vagueness / very driven by the particular action that the user is taking and consent"

Peter: Framing ... UAs should work on behalf of the user. Question is what counts on behalf of the user vs. on behalf of the site.

Don: one feedback we will get : there are actions taken by sites on behalf of users based on info that those users would have chosen to share if they understood it. Long advertising history of publisher media kits making claims to advertisers about audiences for an ad-supported medium. If a site can infer that a user rides the bus, then they can get a nearby advertiser such as Starbucks to advertise on that site based on number of bus riders in the audience, and use the ad revenue to create more content that benefits the user. I want to have this document become not just a set of philosophical principles but reflect long-held information sharing norms that people have in markets that have advertising and publishing.

Nick: different types of telemetry - performance telemetry .. browsers could ask users "do you want to give telemetry back to websites" - I think that's just an update that needs to happen. 

Shubhie: +1 to treating them as seperate betwee telemetry and advertising...  the other point: a way to bridge this is :if you say every time you ask the user it's too specific - if it's bit more general - users being able to opt out. Adding these specific ways how the UA is supporting. 

Don: any time we mention asking the user - we need to tag in the concept of privacy labour. UA is not acting on behalf of the user when it's interrupting or distracting them to ask for consent to something that they don't understand or are unlikely to consent to.

Pete: i kind of disagree we need a special case for telemtry... not connected to the user's goals... user should be informed and make it one of their goals... you can imaging other types of data that are not telemetry.

Pete: visibility and consent are connected - is it connected to what the user want to do. Does the user want to participate?  Don't think [purely] opt out. If it's a consent model I'm ambivelent if it's   ... return visits to site in order to use telemtry seems wrong to me..

Shubhie: yes - gets into the privacy labour point. 

Pete: avoiding unnecessary privacy labour - we shouldn't do things that require onerous consent.

Shubhie: UAs are a primary audience...  what would be more useful for a UA is - how do I participate in this?  

Don: some of the browsers are doing summary notifications like "we blocked 96 trackers" - at that point the user has an opportunity .. "96 opportunities to connect and share with brands that I missed? Better change that setting"

## [PR on role of sign-in](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/173)

Shubhie: feedback I heard - what can the UA do?  What I'm going to do is re-write it as "UA should help user to present the identity they want to present to the site. A site-specific-identity and not have to give away PII." 

Christine: wanted to clarify - yes, whilst one of the primary audiences is the UA - and where appropriaye we should include principles that apply to other parts of the ecosystem including web sites.

Shubhie: i framed it as web sites should not have undue influence in that... my proposal is web sites shouldn't be forcing users to sign in - but not buy-in on that.

Nick: I do think part of the audience is the UA - another part of the audience is spec authors... new feature design... to christine's point I don't mind saying "this is the expectation we have for websites". We can say "websites shouldn't coerce users" and that means browsers should provide features o protect users from coersion and APIs should be designed to resist coersion...  Also wouldn't like to use "PII".  

Dan: +1 to spec authors as audience.

Don: we need to be careful about requiring forcing users to log in - we need to handle all kinds of web sites - could be sites that only make sense with specific info - e.g. a trouble ticket web site that needs to show the appropriate tickets to the appropriate service reps -- we have to be aware of web applications that only make sense in the context of a specific user - "not coerce people to log in purely for data collection". 

Dan: or unless there's a "user need"

Don: e.g. Netflix would say there is a user need.

Shubhie: sounds like there should be wording - but not super specific - and adding things like the reason... related to a user need.

Dan: web site should not know what e.g. credentials you have before you choose one...

Shubhie: user agent ... email 

Nick: we're not just providing guidance "don't do this" but affirmitavely ask "we want features that do this"... features for users to be able to delet these features... 

Dan: probably we should / do focus on features that are either in development or are already implemented - but giving  - giving positive reinforcement to stuff going in the right direction.

Christine: this document is supposed to be also aspirational - not just the status quo.

Don: all the user data practices that you can trace back through centuries of use, pre-Web,  are more likely to persist longer -- the more we can reflect what people have arrived at over time the more relevant the doc will be
