# Privacy TF Minutes - Wed, 12 January 2022

* Present: Jeffrey, Wendy, Christine, Don, Pete, Nick, Robin
* Regrets: Amy, Dan, Tess

## [PRs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aagenda%2B+sort%3Acreated-asc)

### Merge https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/95?

No objections.

### Merge https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/96?

Let Robin review, and then merge.


### [Reorganize the document to flow better #94](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/94)

Jeffrey: Do we want the document to cover just information privacy

Pete: Make it narrower.

Nick: The opposite. A document about privacy principles shouldn't exclude lots of things we think of as privacy. There's other privacy stuff we won't get to for a while.

Christine: We want to talk about what privacy means on the Web. It's the lens with which we look at it.

Robin: Makes sense, but doesn't address the specific debate. The PR has information privacy on the web and "spatial" privacy on the web (or intrusive practices). The "on the web" part is there. It's whether we should just do data privacy or include other forms.

Christine: That's helpful. I lean toward Nick on this.

Jeffrey: I think there's probably other stuff beyond information privacy, but I'm not an expert, so I need other people to suggest.

Nick: Harassment. Manipulation. Information collection can be used for that, but it's a different angle.

Jeffrey: Wanted to include space for those things.

Wendy: Might want to exclude "privacy torts" like defamation.

Robin: Agree we don't want to cover defamation. My concern with Section 6, beyond not having content, is mostly that it's an area where we don't have cross-engine consensus. Jeffrey thinks there's enough we can work with it, which I can accept. I felt like it made the overall plan of the document harder, because it forces us to factor out the things that are common to both. I'm happy to give it a shot. I have an idea for how to work around the structural issues. Let's give it a shot, and try to fix the issues. If it doesn't work, we can revisit.

Don: Looking at Example 2 under Contexts. Might be relevant. The last sentence "interruptions from chat partners ...". Free-to-play web game, where everyone gets the same annoying "buy coins" advertising. Doesn't seem like a privacy issue. But as long as something doesn't have a connection to information about you being used to create an issue, seems out of scope. Could be better examples, like autocompleting an address.

Jeffrey: Privacy is about intrusiveness, but sometimes, e.g. a free-to-play game, advertising intrusion might be expected

Don: I want to stay away from acceptable ads direction, focus on information sharing norms and not trying to micromanage levels of annoyance in UX

Christine: in the streaming field, there's subscription context: pay to watch, or subscribe to service that includes ads (not unexpected intrusion)

Robin: Notion of intrusiveness is a narrow framing for what rules are deemed acceptable. Nags to pay in freeware are contextually appropriate. Word processor less so.

Don: but if the map site that you're using has a "nag" to add a fuel or charging stop, based on data collected from your car's gauge, that might be welcome or intrusive, depending on circumstances

Pete: narrowing to information flows, rather than broad user experience, is appealing to me

Jeffrey: we could lean on contextual integrity, follow the norms in particular situtation

Nick: are we stuck on examples, or categories of issues?

Don: "annoyance" and UX could open the floodgates to a range of issues. Would rather scope to issues that affect people because of information, or who they are.

Christine: Caution against tying everything to contextual integrity. Even in same situation, expectations may vary. Re intrusiveness, perhaps just note that it can also be considered a privacy violation, and leave it to another document to say we don't want web standards to promote intrusive behavior.

Jeffrey: is there a distinction we can make between intrusive and annoying?

Christine: I think so, but difficult to describe. "elephant" problem

Robin: spatial privacy, can range from annoying to oppressive. Your neighbor playing loud music could be just an annoyance, could be a severe problem if you can't sleep and fail a job interview.

Nick: on the web, we can also envision different levels of severity

Jeffrey: for this PR, should we just note that there are different levels of severity, and we're focusing on the intrusive end. Christine's examples in the chat are informational.
for this PR, make a note about annoyance v intrusivenes; manipulation; harassment
... again, distinction between things browsers can enforce and things web pages shouldnt' do, and we should include both

Don: Another example, consent fatigue. Bombarding people with buttons to click, until they do, makes annoyance into a problem

Nick: focus will depend on the kind of standards; if doing social media, harrassment may be more of an issue.

Jeffrey: Christine's [proposed changes](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/94#issuecomment-1010535916).
1. ok
2. removing data paternalism

Robin: think I was expecting to do that anyway

Jeffrey: I'll make all of these in a subsequent PR

... duty of discretion?

Robin: it's the term of art I know. Different from confidentiality

Wendy: not a common legal term

Jeffrey: is the UA trying to limit what websites learn, or what the UA discloses?

Robin: making sure the UA is considerate about what/how it shares. Not the absolute of confidentiality.

Robin in chat: reference for discretion (if memory serves):  [Taking Trust Seriously in Privacy Law](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2655719) (not in the abstract, but in IV.B.1)

Don: big picture is that UA is agent for the user, doing what the user would do for themselves if they could operate at that level of detail. Push back against the viewpoint that the web page owns its address space (Help make it clear that code that runs in the browser has to take the same actions that the user would). Adding detailed lists of duties can help emphasize this.

Robin: trying to add detail to concept of "user agent"

Wendy: Might help to list these as fiduciary duties rather than list what they mean in the browser context.

Robin: Got pushback on using "fiduciary".

Jeffrey: these duties might ultimately wind up in a different document, infra. This seems a fine place to start, for reference.

Robin: I don't mind if they migrate elsewhere eventually

Jeffrey: I'll leave it for now.

... going on, noting that fiduciary has a legal meaning

Christine: to distinguish from how we're using it

Don: I'd rather have more legal terms of art that express the user agent relationship than fewer, so that it is clear in multiple jurisdictions and cultures, and so that any future translations can reflect the maximum alignment between code that runs in the browser and what the user would have chosen if they knew what the code were doing.

Jeffrey: unobservable parties

Christine: it appeared you were drawing parallel to physical contexts. At a cocktail party, you can see the other guests; in online social network, you might not be conscious of all the other observers. And then there's question of smart assistant listening.

Jeffrey: I think unknown listeners are privacy violations in online and physical spaces. Maybe it's easier to inform people in a physical context, but still about whether people are aware.

Robin: smart assistants are interesting. Lots of people may be unaware that Nest has a microphone. If you look and don't know, you might be unaware.

Jeffrey: invite someone else to write an example.

Robin: I'll open an issue starting from Christine's text

Christine: Is burying privacy practices in legalese a dark pattern or other bad behavior?

Nick: not clear if we'll use dark patterns elsewhere. Using legalese to confuse consent is a dark pattern.

Jeffrey: Getting consent for something unexpected buried in the legal text could be a dark pattern.

... "illusory," I'll copy to another issue

... 4.2 re privacy labor, I can add that consent-based models tend to increase privacy labor

Jeffrey: unless there are other comments, sounds like merge-as-is and then open follow-up issues, PRs.

Robin: +1, some other issues already open

Nick: +1

Jeffrey: I'll merge after the meeting

Don: I'll make a [separate PR](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/100) for example 2 in section 3 after the merge.


## [Issues](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aagenda%2B+sort%3Acreated-asc)


### ["de-identification" #93](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/93)

Jeffrey: mnot raised issue, suggesting we use GDPR language

Christine: I prefer de-identification, as it's more precise technically. De-ID may not make something anonymous

Robin: +1, in practice, anonymization has an extremely high threshold.

Jeffrey: maybe say "we intentionally don't call this anonymization, because that's a very high bar"

Nick: I think that's the trend in scholarship too

Jeffrey: address 93 by saying why we're not using the term

Nick: point to [86](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/86).

### [Definition of 'personal data' #92](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/92)

Jeffrey: mnot again, pointing to GDPR

Christine: GDPR is not all jurisdictions

Jeffrey: I can switch back to "relating to"

[several +1s]

Jeffrey: and the second point, combining the fruits with the phone book doesn't make the fruit identifying.

Robin: there needs to be a notion of mapping. Maybe we can improve the wording.
... open an [issue](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/98) to find better wording.

### AOB

Nick: Actions?

Jeffrey: Please write text for any issues that inspire you. Feel free to assign issues to yourself.
