# TAG Privacy Task Force Call - 6 July 2022

Present: Dan, Christine, Nick, Robin, Pete
Regrets: Shubhie, Jeffrey

## [Ancillary Uses](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/170)

**Pete has made comments... Nick will review**

Nick: I put in bullet points from my notes when we discussed previously.. Haven't done a revision to address.  But I think Pete was interested in some discussion.

Pete: My comments on the current PR - changes normative language to a description of the state of the world.  It should retain the normative text.  It removes text that says what browsers should and shouldn't do... changes to browsers should ask consent.  Feel the current text is a step back.

Nick: It was trying to add some empirical text but... should also have principles.  There was the comment last time that we should make it more clear which is which.  

Pete: the principle doesn't seem to be captured by the new principle that's added. 

Pete: saying data should be minimized - not contraversial.    What we're trying to do is say : certain things are inappropriate to collect data about. 

Nick: user agents should seek to understand the user's goals... and they shoudl communcate data on behalf of the user in those regards.  User agents might use trust relationships with sites.. there are things users would expect.  Responsibility of the user agent to figure out the desres of the users.

Pete: I think it's an exception sized holes that renders other things meaningless. Some people might say it's reasonable to have all user info communicated under this way of thinking.

Nick: separately if we do know better... 

Dan: I agree with Pete. I have often seen in business situations people assume that just because a person has signed long terms and conditions, they have actually consented. We cannot assume that people will be acting in good faith.

Christine: while some law might treat legitimate use and consent as ways to use data ... first approach should be "is it in line with user's expectations". Many will use "consent" to mean they can do whatever they want.

Nick: the intent was certainly not to endorse consenting to broad terms. What I was trying to get at and clarify was that the UA is supposed to have strong loyalties to the user and those apply even when the user is not going to agree to everything. We do have some explanation of what cases it would be okay for the browser to share data without the user explicitly agreeing to it. This goes through examples in which the user has preferences, not cases of consent.

Pete: People don't have unlimited time, we shouldn't treat people as if they did. We don't know their preferences and so should err on the side of protection.

Dan: If there were a games site that makes very advanced use of graphics and animation APIs, and they really want to fine tune. And they're using telemetry to gather data about performance. This is not easy to explain to users. How can we enable this, make sure that the Web is a high-quality platform, without making it open ended?

Pete: a "would you like to contribute data to improve the system" checkbox.

Nick: yes - i think that's an example that came up - maybe not on every web site - but a general consent for the browser to telemetry.

Pete: that would address a lot of my concerns

Christine: I would like to say _and_ could we promote somewhere where telemetry is being collected and shared, could we encourage SMC and other such modern, aggregating approaches.

Nick: The current text does support aggregated. We should have a separate section about other "ands" like the securing of data and prevention of reuse.

Pete: I worry that the text says that the aggregate data is consented somehow.

Nick: It could be that there could be a difference. The feedback last time was that the text was too much about explicit consent and we shouldn't promote that as the only way.

Robin: agreeing to fill in the checkbox - isn't exactly the same as consent - it's single purpose.. not a consent dialog. I also like Christine's suggestion of mentioning SMC. A lot of modern browser telemtry is built on systems like that.  

Pete: we have our own with an IETF proposal on top.

Nick: is there a way to write down the sense of trying to respect the general user preferences and goals rather than asking for consent every time - but also asking people not just relying on what the user would want? 

Robin: maybe ... CPRA ... tries to capture that in the way it mentions GPC. IF you're using a browser that's privacy-friendly browser then blah blah.. if you're using a quantified self system then you don't need to ask for consent. 

Dan: example of webxr - if you put on a headset you could be expected to have given consent for access to camera image.

Pete: i feel nervous.. with tools that aren't private don't need to be private. We should set a floor.

Robin: I agree.. just trying to find a way to formulate... 

Christine: people expected vacuum robots to map their houses to do the cleaning but they didn't expect that this data would be sold.  There's an issue with local and cloud.

Nick: i will try to revise... there may be some fundamental disagreements.

## [open issues](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aagenda%2B)

**re-triaging**

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/1

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/24

Christine: given all the discussions about parties - it's not helpful to talk about multi-party cosent. This is about data that belongs to people...  It's avoid ...

Robin: we have a section on group privacy that covers a lot of this... 

Christine: that would cover one side of it... where inetrestes are aligned and shared. Doesn't cover the other case.

Robin: we still need something for the other side... 

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/26

Robin: need to go through list of feedback ..

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/34

Pete: I think this has been dealt with.

Robin: I think so too...

Christine: Will review and close

Pete: Kyle's PR also touches on this

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/49

Robin: I will add a single note  - and will close.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/50

Pete: I think we have this .. also in Kyle's PR... #163.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/63

Pete: I think this can be closed.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/68

Robin: I can take this on as a **back burner** proposal..

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/71

Nick: I intend to do it.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/86

Robin: reference - i can do it.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/90

Robin: any prompts should have a GFY option.

Pete: yes.. and I feel it's ok to leave this out of the document.

Robim: we do talk about intrusiveness..... 

Nick: could we have a succint piece of text?

"If the user has repsonded negatively to a prompt it's reasonable to assume they will not change their views unless some ..."

Christine: it's also possible to make a mistake sometimes with these prompts. It would be helpful if there's a convenient way for users to see how they've responded to prompts.

Robin: eg withdrawing consent.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/93

Robin: I will close as dup of #86

