 # TAG Privacy TF Call - Wed, 25 May 2022
 
 Present: Dan, Don, Jeffrey, Robin, Christine, Shubhie, Amy
 Regrets: Wendy
 
 ## Agenda
 
### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/15

Dan: TAG feedback, channeled from Sangwhan: Follow the style guide better (#15). Start all the principles sections with a really actionable principle, and follow it by elaboration. Try to make it more readable. Amy will start an editorial PR along those lines.

Dan: Also, some of the wording wasn't accessible to people with English as a second language. Just editorial, not trying to step on toes.

Shubhie: So this should be a doc that browser engineers and others writing specs can use as a guide? Usable to whom and in what context?

Dan: We want this to be used in the context of TAG reviews, to point to it when someone opens a TAG review. Spec authors should look at this document alongside the design principles, the questionnaire. Should make people think about privacy in a way they hadn't before. The TAG has some experience working with people in the design phase. There's magic timing between when they have an idea and when they have a fully-formulated design, where these documents come into play. That's an area we want to hit, even though that's only one of the audiences. We also want this document to influence general W3C and standards thinking. But make it accessible to browser engineers who are working on new specs. And those working on frameworks and server-side technologies. 

Robin: Want this to be available to those who care about building better privacy regulation. It's particularly challenging to write because we have to write for a technical audience and a privacy audience, where each doesn't know the other's terms. Current writing is still problematic.

Dan: Maybe we can signpost ... principles starts in plain language, and then we signpost that we're talking about the background. Rather than having different parts of the document.

Jeffrey: A couple thoughts.. the HTML spec attempts to have a developer mode and a standards mode, although it's a lot of work. I would like us to prioritise the engineer focussed part, that's where our expertise is, and even though we would like this to affect regulation we don't have a lot of expertise there and it's more speculative. If we have to choose and focus on something, we should emphasise the engineering focus. Last, I wonder if making this document useful to people designing specs and serverside cmponents means we should revisit the rough deciision to avoid tradeoffs that aren't purely about privacy. That's exactly what people designing other stuff are going to be thinking about. How to trade off between privacy goals that we would if we had no other considerations, and all of the other considerations we feel are forcing us to compromise

Robin: Good points. 1) In prehistory when I was working on HTML stuff, a lot of the feedback from devs was that thye didn't know there was a developer mode that hid the terrible algorithms. It surfaced quickly that people preferred MDN to look up docs. If they looked up the specs, it was to see the horrendous algorithms. It's a lot of work and might not be successful.
Tradeoffs: Can we flag the tradeoffs without making them or discussing ramifications. When we get into them, it's hard to figure out how to present them in a way that doesn't make the decision for people. "This principle is important, but also consider safety/online threats/other things."

Don: Concern with the level of complexity in this document. But realistically, when someone's developing in this area, especially with new browser funcitonality that handles user data, the level of complexity and incomprehensible documents gets high fast. We could over-optimize this document for simplicity, but the audience still has fundamental problem that the way players manipulate data is hard to understand. They can get the principles, but determining whether principles match implementation is mostly a problem of understanding the implementation.

Amy: Emphasizing the engineering focus: play to our strenghts and not step too far outside out lane, but Christine and Wendy do have regulatory expertise, and we shouldn't downplay that.

Dan: On going to MDN, we should write an MDN version of this. Amy's working on a series of PRs. This is a process. Don't think there's a call to radically change anything we're doing. It's about simplifying and iterating.




### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/168
 
Dan: mnot left a comment about changing the "How this document fits in" section.

Christine: Interesting that Mark says privacy is regulated by two forces. "Managed/controlled" instead of the usual 

Jeffrey: Mark's roughly citing lessig's book on architectural regulation - something similar to physical laws that regulate what is possible and legal regulation 

> https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/cs181/projects/2010-11/CodeAndRegulation/about.html: "To begin, Lessig describes four methods of regulation that apply to both cyberspace and the natural world: 1) regulation through network architecture (code); 2) societal regulations (what is considered appropriate social behavior); 3) The market costs associated with maintaining parts of the Internet; 4) The law."

Robin: legitimacy of goverance by standards bodies in a transnational context...  e.g. WTO, international commercial law... when he says regulated I think he means regulated.  Actually really regulated by these multiple forces.  Partly architectural considerations partly state forces... I like what he's saying... worried that I don't think we can open with this para without giving more background ... will be confusing to people who aren't steeped in internet governance.

Christine: agree with robin.  i like the sentiment of what marrk is trying to say - similar to robin, so many people use "regulated" in a narrow sense. We need an explanation that explains it or there's a risk that people will say "standards is doing the job of government"...

Robin: i initialy had some text about the legitimacy of governance... same time we're hearing pushback ... not empowered ... neeed to capture...
 
Dan: Need to work on this some more.

Robin: Could ask Mark to iterate on this. Have a monthly meeting with him, and would be happy to hash something out.

### [add additional details to clarify privacy by default principle](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/166)

Christine: this is in context of identity?

Dan: yes

Jeffrey: he's pointing out that people often want to present no identity, no information abou themselves when they visit a website, which we had implied but his text is making it explicit

Don: I don't like his line about remain as private as possible unless consent - it's an opportunity to say consent now and if we find out something we can use it. As long as it's a default we can say remain as private as possible and cut it off. [comments]

Shubhie: is this specifically in the context of presenting an identity on a website that a user is visiting? How that relates to the role of the UA? I think that's the next edit.. is that right?

Jeffrey: in the first chunk of changes I don't like the addition to th efirst sentences, makes it longer without adding anything. Certainly direct presentation violates the styleguide that we should avoid specialised terms

Christine: trying to say directly or indirectly?

Jeffrey: trying to say that if your IP address is visible then someone can identify that you're related to the other people with that IP address and that's not directly presented, it's another means

Dan: meta question, this is the first unsolicited PR we've had from the community. We want to be receptive and responsive to community feedback. is this th eright process? Should we be telling people please raise issues to discuss first? 

Jeffrey: he did raise an issue and his intent is roughly what we wanted

Dan: I see, that's good

Christine: I think I agree direct presentation is ugly and I agree with jeffrey that we want to keep this simple. Maybe we could say their identity in a context is a set of characteristicsthey present to that context. This can be direct or indirect. I think he might be pulling out the direct or indirect becaus some data privacy or protection lawas talk about direct and indirect to make it clear to those reading privacy laws you must also take into account situations where the information is provided indirectly.

Shubhie: the UA should assume by default.. is a very strong statement. Without the context.. that's not the default for browsers today. That sounds like most browsers have some sort of an incognito mode.. I don't think any browser has a default of this nature. That seems like pretty contradictory with the world, so maybe qualifying this with the user intends xyz you might want to assume this, rather than sweeping default

Jeffrey: I think this might be inline Shubhie with your no trust idea, that when you first visit a website you're not trusting it with anything so we should avoid giving it more inforamation than you intended. Then as you engage with the website more you're no longer in the default mode and we can do something with that. I'm not super worried about that text.

Shubhie: +1

Dan: if we feel like we want to edit down the text that the requester has made here how should we do that? Would somebody like to do some inline comments or suggestions?

Jeffrey: I think the useful changes that kyle has made here are clarifying that present to the context is not just the person decided to present something, it can be implicit, or other ways that the website learns things about them even if they didn't mean to present them. and that people may choose to not present anything or to mislead the website, and that those are good things to made possible. I hadn't figured out how to word that best but those are useful contributions.

Robin: +1

Dan: Jeffrey do you want to take over this PR

Christine: I can suggest the wording for the first bit, with the modification that Don proposed, and see how that looks

Jeffrey: as an engineer I'm not sure what direct or indirect winds up meaning. If we can find something that is clearer to non-regulatory people that could be good

Christine: noted

### [add additional characteristics used to identify users](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/167)
 
Dan: this is fairly small.. requesting to add 'behavioural or browser' into the list of things that may identify users

Jeffrey: I'm concerned about that because we definitely expose the browser major version and that is inescapable.. but that is their browser's identity.. but behavioural makes some sense

Robin: behavioural I can see why it would fit in that list. But browser feels weird. Not sure if it means UA related stuff or if it's a browser provided identity something.

Christine: I agree, browser is a very specific and different type of category to the factors that are listed there. But I think behavioural is reasonable

Don: talking about a browser fingerprint? If it's that it doesn't really fit in

Jeffrey: we could talk about a device fingerprint. The identity of their deivce.

Don: Client hardware/software would include browser, device OS

Jeffrey: very different from the things listed

Christine: I would add it above with email, IP, ..

Robin: I agree. There are two lists. Fits in the outside list. I can ask him what he meant. But if he means fingerprint or device I agree it can go into another bullet point

Dan: I made a suggested change which was to remove browser from the list. Do you want to ask..

Robin: will do

Shubhie: looking at that list, one of the second items is an identification number mapping to a device. 

Jeffrey: that reads to me like phone IMEI number.. the fingerprint is a little bit different but still fits in the list as a different item

### [How users engage with web content](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10FpnIcrEslbO3Fgfr9UikM7ND-EcdmsJfGO557tcIYQ/edit)

Robin: gradient of relationsips...

Shubbie: greater intimacy of relationship comes with greater responsiiblity [from website pov] - from a UA perspective how should we think about this?  Things following you around the internet... signals about the user or not...

Robin: the idea you get more as a web site as the relationship intensivies is attractive but how clear is it to users? could be come surprising in some cases.. in context of powerful capabilities... e.g. a website you visit every week could more earily ask you for use of powerful APIs... 

Shubbie: i will share more next week.

Robin: any con

Dan: worried about cases like https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/337#issuecomment-561368571 (Contacts API), where there are problems when we let a website ask for things on first use, so maybe we should gate on engagement. 


