# TAG Privacy Principles Task Force, 11 May 2022

Present: Jeffrey, Shubhie, Wendy, Sam, Robin, Dan, Tess, Don, Christine

Regrets: Pete, Amy

## introductions

Shubhie, working on anti covert tracking in Google Privacy Sandbox, previously worked on web frameworks and performance. Jeffrey out during June, July, and August.

( round of intros )

## fpwd

on previous agreement, we are publishing a FPWD.

revising announcement text, for email to AC and potentially blog post/news item. w3c statement process and ethical web principles going through in parallel.

Questions about whether to list DuckDuckGo. They haven't replied. Dan will give them a deadline to say they've left, but since Jonathan did contribute, we'll keep them by default.

task force membership listing not complete

wordsmithing announcement. continue to revise via Slack.
Nick: should include more than definitions, the draft also explains why privacy is important for the web and starts principles as architectural guidance for privacy in different contexts

starting a google doc for shared editing :(

## pr's

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/158

Jeffrey: third party tracking -> cut in revenue of 50%... shows our research.  If we do things to replace some of the revenue undercuts privacy ... Trade off of not providing any targeting information for ads vs tools for advertising...

Don: other side of the revenue issue - Some background here: https://github.com/dmarti/PUFFIN - if you look at RTB revenue in real time you can see that where 3rd party cookies are not available revenue is 50% of where the 3rd party cookie is available.  But also the effect of 3rd party tracking enables sites that don't have salable ad revenue to be sold. Different people have different opinions about what would happen if 3rd party cookies went away entirely.  "3rd party cookies cut ad revenue" is only one side of the story.

Wendy: not here... this doc doesn't need to explore the second-order effects. Discussion elsewhere can build upon the privacy principles, and on varying analyses of evidence and anticipated consequences. 

Robin: one tool in the tool box... concerned about the way in which it's framed - that targeting is an unmitigated good.   Other sites like fake sites, disinformartion sites would not get revenue... If we keep this we should make it more hedged.  "Some market participants believe..." https://berjon.com/competition-privacy/

Jeffrey: sounds good.  Trade off - if they are willing to spend then they break antiprofiling.  trades off 2 different privacy goals.

Nick: I put my thoughts into the issue... I'm a little skeptical about the conclusions.  I understand alternative incentives - i don't think they will disapear if there is a "well lit path"... it would be misleading to suggest that no actor will pursue covert tracking.  given that we're unlikely to have agreement on the ecosystem fianncial stuff i am not sure if it's useful.

Shubhie: does it help is with privacy trade-offs?  Whether we acknowlegde the existence of economic forces.. we know that there are those forces.  Should this doc be helping to trade off these tensions... 

Wendy: more likely to be hard to get consensus in the broad community ... i think we can get the strongest doc here by focusing on the privacy principles and realizing that privacy is but one of the issues that people talking about ecosystems should be considering.

Nick: alternative - moving to altetnative tracking mechanisms.  we need to consider covert [unsannctioned?] tracking mechanisms... more constructive to have a seperate thing in his doc : we should be aware of xxx mechanisms some of which may be harder to detect.  

Jeffrey: key point i was hoping to get ... mitigate some of those incenstives might be to sacrifice privacy in one area...  not productive to talk about "how" to make the trade off.. but that the tradeoff exists.

Dan: should we talk about effects like political influencing e.g. cambridge analytica etc... 

Jeffrey: given that we want to prevent - how do we get people to not work around our anti profiling work.  Google think that involves sacrificing privacy in some areas.

Robin: sites learning "person was here and converted" --  IPA proposal... 

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/162

Jeffrey: don't collect disclose etcc in a way that would surprise the person...  Pete doesn't like the change - from a health related document. Worried about surprise... wants overt and immediate to stick around.

Robin: tried hard to find ways around notions of surprise... the issue I see with surprise - you would be surprised how many people don't know that by loading a web page you're teling the web site something.  People are surprised by a lot of things that happen on the internet.  Makes it difficult to capture information... complicated.. i don't have a solution in exchange.

Don: one way to look at surprise might be the colored pencil test https://solarsystem.nasa.gov/resources/693/first-tv-image-of-mars-hand-colored/ - the first digital image from Mars was hand colored with colored pencils. Today your browser does the same task for you, for thousands of images a day. It's doing the same thing you would choose to do yourself if you had the time and the colored pencils to do it. In other areas, is the browser doing the same work that you would choose to do? (Is your browser providing the same info about you to sites and third parties that you would choose to provide?) 

Nick: concern... https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/150 people don't understand everything their browser does... "duties of the user agent" as a key concept?  Browser makes reasonable decisions on your behalf...

Jeffrey: mabe just revert that piece ("surprise")...

Robin: I do wonder if what both Don & Nick said provide a way forward... description Don gave is close to my description of fiduciary dutues of UAs... ties into the concept of duties and faithful representation...  You have to be careful... 

Jeffrey: stuff the UA gives to people... 

Robin: things the UA does for its own purposes should be in scope as well...

[...wordsmithing the PR...]

Don: is your computer doing something with its time that you would choose to do if you had the time?

Tess: tricky... if I had the time to read the Ts and Cs that i could scroll ... even if I have the time i'm not gonna do it. I'd rather watch a movie.  The hypothetical assumes anyone would do this but they wouldn't.

Don: is it sufficiently in your interest to do it?  If I buy a product i like I'll take their customer survey. If i see someone on a  street corner with a survey then maybe not.

Tess: my example: i'm trying to do something but this thing is in my way...

Robin: it's about aligning with the interests.  

Jeffrey: I'll do a round of updates.
