# Privacy TF Minutes - Wed, 20 April 2022

Present: Robin, Dan, Wendy, Sam, Nick, Tess, Don, Christine
Regrets: Jeffrey

## [PR147](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/147)

Robin: PR to a PR - overall pretty straightforward...  

Tess: part of the original PR ... 

[discussion on where to put the Pew study showing people are unhappy]

Dan: i think we should have it...

Christine: advocating for privacy - for other people as well...

Dan: the PR works for me.

Sam: thinking of ... cases where business would want to retain data - e.g. preventing abuse by retaining data - or "this is a bad customer"...

Robin: that's a real-world concern - not sure how to address it at a principle level...

Dan: maybe out of scope?

Don: a car service records number of rides you took - and a different figure for number of rides you took where you didn't barf. (If you access "all the data your company has on me" you might not get everything that feeds into their decision making)  Negative space.

Nick: [would like to save the reference to the Pew thing]

Robin: [works that in while we discuss]

## [143](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/143)

Don: trying to exclude the first party being the vps or content editor - role playing game where a game master uploads content and players play... splitting out the control of site content - user who's the game master - vs control of system administration of the hardware on which the site runs -- or are you that party in the middle. Contract with that company - who's in control.

Dan: masto-host example - 

Don: can you look at a list of users and decide to kick someone off?

Dan: yes.

Don: then you're the 1st party and the host would be the service provider.

Robin: it's not clear to me that the user who controls ... is the 1st party.  a case where .. decided that the 1st party handed over control to a 3rd party...  If you inject a fb pixel into your site then you've transfered control to someone else.

Don: it's the party that should have legal control not whatever party managed to peek at the data.

Robin: legally in terms of control - fb considered a controller despite being a 3rd party...

Christine: don't think we should be talking about what the law is or is not...

Robin: some legal cases 3rd parties have been identified...  as controller.

Wendy: and the law may vary by jurisdiction

Christine: as far as we can go....

Robin: dom't think we should include legal concerns here...  

Don: ideal controler in principle... based on user's perception of what site they're on.  re-write based on "the understanding of the user"...

Robin: *party that controls the origin* makes sense to me. *party who controls the use of information on an origin* .. broadens the information to too many other parties... 

Don: I'd like it to be narrower.   A person on medium.com is in control of their channel - but they don't have access to info on who their users are.  Your hosing service is not your first party.  Instead of *control of the information* maybe it's *party the user believes they are interacting with*. (Not everyone who can get a pixel onto a page is a first party)

Robin: i think the original text is better... 

Pete: i think it should be narrower.  We need something tied to the application itself - not who is pulling the levers.

Nick: we're not going to get a 1 sentence def... I share pete's privacy concern but don't think it needs to be in the def of first party to an interaction... 

[discussion on the origin vs the URL bar]

Tess: Is there anyone who can't live with the current text for FPWD?

Don: i can live with the current text if there is an issue opened (I will open the issue) 

Tess: let's have a red box right there - I'd be happy with that.

## [144](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/144)

Don: has come up in FPS proposal - corporate structure - makes it difficult to figure out who the "owner" of a site is - the doc should be independent of figuring this out  (In general, more transparent ownership of transnational companies and better compliance with tax laws would be good things, but out of scope for this document)

Christine: LGTM

Robin: +1

**consensus to merge**

## [133](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/133)

Robin: i think yes we should merge 133.

Nick: I raised some issues... Jeffrey had some questions - don't feel it needs to be settled. But we should have an issue - could lead to confusion because we don't have consensus.  Could we have an issue box on what we do about the cases beyond the immediate goal... 

Pete: Waiting for feedback from Jeffrey. 

Nick: I can come up with issue text.

Robin: we should proabbly also merge pr 14 from tess and reject ... as overtaken.



Tess: marged 14.

Robin: i will update the sotd.

**consensus to go to fpwd with changes and updates described above**

Robin: everyone go through the draft please. 

Tess: alphabetize the definitions in high level threats?

**general agreement**

Peter: align "principles" 

Robin: prefer we not use "principle" on each principle.

Tess: what if we just moved appendix C to the top?  Ethical web princople style?

Dan / Robin: can we do it later?

Tess: OK.

