# TAG Privacy TF - 19 Jan 2022

Present: Dan, Robin, Christine, Pete, Jeffrey, Wendy

## 

Robin: some remgaining debate to push it further to narrative land - i think i have an idea that can work and that keeps interruptive notifcations, harassment, etc... that maintains consistency.  New PR 

## [PR 99](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/99)


Jeffrey: responding to mnot's concern, bringing closer to GDPR language (though it's still not exactly that)

DKA: looks good to me

Robin: same

DKA: merge?

no objection, merged


## [PR 100](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/100)

Don: Attempt to avoid rathole on micromanaging ad UX. So I changed the example to "creepy" from "annoying"

npdoty: fine with this change; intrusion will come back in later discussion

Robin: My proposal will try to make the intrusion point

DKA: Merge.


## [PR 101](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/101)

Jeffrey: I'm open to better wording re Weiler's comment

weiler: I'll file an issue

Jeffrey: Accepted many of Christine's proposed changes. 
"Discretion" came from paper referenced, but I tried to improve the clarity. Discretion is about managing data, taking care with disclosure, rather than preventing websites from sending data.
Removed definition of data paternalism as discussed. 

DKA: Why?

Robin: it didn't feel useful

JY: We talk about fiduciary duties. 

Christine: Instead of "similar meaning," it's that "some jurisdictions have a legal definition of fiduciary, which might be different from that used here"

Nick: "Some jurisdictions may have a distinct legal meaning for fiduciary"

JY: I like Nick's wording

DKA: Privacy labor... I made a suggested change

DKA: ready to merge?

JY: merged

## [PR 102](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/102)

Robin: :flip table: I've reframed everything. Data governance, rules describing how actors must or must not process information with human impact. Read the text.
Trying to make it entirely about systems of rules
Big tent approach, not specific to contextual integrity, etc.
A few general considerations: autonomy, user agents, ...
Then, let's create some rules. e.g. collecting personal data, profiling, 
start establishing rules in terms of what we expect from privacy on the web, extensible. 

I've tried to reorganize in line with this; some of the rules are empty, because we didn't yet have text

Christine: a high-level point, use of the word rules. We still might want to call them principles. 
Agree we want people to follow these. 
Worry that "rules" will get people saying "W3C is trying to take over the function of law" and detract from the substance

Robin: I share the concern, but "rules" to go beyond the principles. e.g. discuss what browsers do, 
Trying to develop a system of governance. Think we have both principles and rules 

Christine: I see the rules as examples of how you'd implement the principles. 

Robin: Rules are concrete implementation of principles?

Christine: do we consider the normative text in specs to be rules?

Nick: we typically call it requirements

Jeffrey: When I look at principles so far, they're not as precise as rules. I'm comfortable calling it "principles"

DKA: I think we should stick with principles

Jeffrey: this document could still be principles governing the choice of rules around information flows . It could be that we could talk about privacy as rules around information flows and still have a document that talks about principles.

Robin: I'm worried we go for hedging before there's a problem - If we call a "rule" a principle because people miight react then we .. i don't disagree that some of these is happening at an abstract level - some of these things really are principles. Theres' a way to make this work.  Let's not hedge for debate reasons.

Nick: I had the reaction about how it would be interpreted - but also this TF would provide high level principles which would be fleshed out through a threat model.  That would change more often. Principles would hopefully change less frequently.  

Pete: I think we want the rules PING and TAG are applying during reviews.  I feel this body has the basis to describe the rules.  Doesn't seem out of scope.

Robin: I also feel this way - it should be concrete not just abstract - I cut out the philosophy fat.

Wendy: "principles implemented" or "principles applied" might get most of the way there - these ares still not to the level of a rule.  

DKA: +1, what's in here is still subject to interpretation, not algorithmic rules of WHATWG specs "do X, then do Y". Not about hedging, but making the document clear. We are trying to achieve something that can be used for TAG reviews, as Pete said. Reference point for reviews, "this contravenes a principle." Help create common language. 

Robin: to summarize, terminology concern. Not bad to discuss systems of rules, but we should call them "principles for ..." and discuss at the appropriate level of concreteness. 

Nick: trying to figure out workmode. Has threat model been dropped? 

Pete: I didn't think we were dropping threat model, and that's more specific. 

Robin: this is meant to be extensible. Follow research, studies, new tech. Similarly, PATCG might want to update or extend as advertising technology changes

DKA: Point of order. I'm concerned if we want to do a FPWD this month. Robin's proposal looks as though it would require lots of work, discussion. Can we get halfway by incorporating the great new text into the intro, and keeping the organization as-is for FPWD? 

Sam: If we're going to make this change, should do so before the big push

Robin: flagging that the chagne looks big because I moved text. Intro is largely new next, then trimming philosophical fat. The rest is reordered/re-titled things we already had. Moved based on different organizing principle. 

Nick: +1 to Sam. I think it is valuable to have a list-based approach. Valuable to do that before public draft. 

Jeffrey: Noticed Robin dropped contextual integrity. That's fine with me. New text could be indepent of the organization. 

Nick: Don't mind mention of contextual integrity, but said it shouldn't be our overarching principle. 

Robin: Should still include reference to CI. Data governance systems. 

DKA: temperature check. I'm trying to get us to production. 

Jeffrey: this is counterproposal to the reorg merged last week. Not churn, but different decision

Robin: I don't see it as counter-proposal, but furthering those changes. 

Jeffrey: I like Robin's framing as information flows; worry that finding a single explanation of "privacy" is likely wrong since so many others have tried and failed. 

Robin: this is a meta-unified-framing that keeps the notion of contested. Because rules need to be decided collectively. Why we have consensus process.

Christine: still haven't had time to fully digest the draft. Wonder if a sentence is missing, re web is about data flowing back and forth, so in the context of web, we're using data governance model. Not saying that's all of privacy. 

DKA: putting it in context of the web. 

DKA: between now and next week, please review and work on this PR. See if we can land it by next Wednesday. 

Robin: Data Privacy Day is Feb 28

Jeffrey: we shouldn't rush to hit that date

DKA: don't rush, but try to get a draft out.

Christine: how can we help?

Robin: Flag any issues you think need to be fixed by Wed

DKA: in the context of this PR

Jeffrey: and text in the sections. 

Robin: refresh before you read.

Nick: as we look at this in more detail, I'm not sure the legitimacy/consensus/governance piece will be generally agreed - have we all agreed that consensus is the only legit form of governance. 

Don: we need to think from the pov of the consumer of this document (W3C groups that cite this document as users, what do they need?)

Christine: if we don't need it let's avoid the contraversy. 

Jeffrey: 2 important aspects I want to keep - making people legible is an important consideration and collective governance is a technique that can be used to make sure that data processing is legitimate.  it's a way to do good things.

