# TAG Privacy Taskforce - 7 December 2022

Present: Dan, Don, Nick, Sam, Jeffrey
Regrets: Amy, Peter, Christine

## [Guardians](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/203)

Dan: not sure about conflating parent/child and employer/employee...

Don: malware protection is a shared interest between employer and employee. It's more complicated if the employer is a defense contractor - and the employee might gtve up info about their browsing in return for access to ad-supported content, but that conflicts with the interest of the employer in not revealing technologies being researched for company projects. 

Jeffrey: good example of how it lines up with the parent/child relationship...  

Nick: I definitely see the analagous situation - however even thought it's analagous I don't think we should use the same terminology. 

Dan: maybe 2 separate sections?

Don: guardian puts the interests of the child ahead of theirs - but the employer puts interest of customers and investors ahead.

Nick: I think this is a good laying out of the problem but I don't know what we're recommending. 

Jeffrey: leaning on the other PR - on device owners... 2 principles on what user agents should do on behalf of device owners.

## [Device owner / user rights](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/202)

Nick: not sure we should say spy on...

Jeffrey: surveil instead of spy.

Sam: related to Automotive people conversation.  ... priority of constituencies - manufacturer vs driver... vehicle owner vs vehicle driver... This applies outside of web context.

Nick: an owner of a car might want to know where the car is - but it should be clear to the driver that this is in operation.

Dan: maybe take it out of a table?

Nick: not that "i own the phone that my wife uses" but "i have access to the settings"... 

Jeffrey: change device owner to device adnimistrator. 

Nick: not just administator - with the elder family member example you could say "this child" - 

Jeffrey: the ability to adminsistrate a device is not always consensual and not always formal.

Nick: do we have employer/employee principles?  or only administators?

Don: there may be some interesting info on this from American Library Association - honor code on data. Can take a look at what the librarians say about policies for administration of computers that are used by library visitors but are administered by them.

Nick: we should have the device administator section which talks about employers and have the guardian section that shouldn't reference employees.

Jeffrey: i can do that. UAs do have special features for guardians... it'd be nice to come up with some kind of guidance for this.  Think of the guardian having responsbiloty rather than having rights...

Nick: subj matter experts...

Dan: Is there anything we can say to content providers / about content providers?  

Jeffrey: covered in the vulnerable people section...  

Nick: there is some interest in some websites - special web sites for people escaping malicious guardians.

Jeffrey: trevor project - dseigned for people trying to evade their guardians.

Nick: that's a use case for clear site data...

Jeffrey: tension is that the guardian gets to choose the browser that the ward gets to use.  The user agent needs to be able to refuse if necessary... i think having the warning you're being surveiled is as much as we can do.  "there should be a private browsing mode that guardians can't surveil" but it's hard to balance that with legit interest of preventing kids from browsing violent or extremist sites... 

Nick: maybe allow-list certain sites?

Jeffrey: I think we can useful say "pay attention to both of these needs"...

Jeffrey: I'm not convinced about changing the table... 

Don: source for terminology on people's relationships? https://www.ipvtechresearch.org/ we could be consistent with their usage to make things hopefully clearer

## [Identity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/201)

## [Harassment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/195)

Nick: there were comments from Robin & Jeffrey - and I've tried to address... other important change : talk about the disparity of impacts ... not just lgbtq and women but other marginiised groups... 

Nick: most of the citations are specific to western countries... kind of feel like that's a problem... 

*discussion of reporting vs enforcement*

Dan: enforcement might be out of band

Jeffrey: provided by other systems... 

Nick: having a reporting mechanism with no enforcement - that wouldn't be good. But not much we can do to specify.

Dan: suggest we merge - including dismissing Robin's review.

*resolved to merge*
