# TAG Privacy Task Force Call - 8 June 2022

Present: Dan, Wendy, Don, Shubhie, Pete, Nick, Amy, Sam

Regrets: Robin, Christine

## Minutes

### Feedback on the Draft

*...discussion...*

### Pulls

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pulls

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/158 

Wendy: I last commented that this document should contribute to conversations elsewhere.. .  i was favouring leaving the second-order effects and predictions to discussions that follow from this document, rather than includint them in this doc itself. 

**meta point**

Shubhie: I'm also curious if there has been feedback / round of PRs... for a spec writer what are useful points

Pete: I don't think it's good to do future prediction... should avoid...

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/166

Dan: from Kyle

Pete: (whos from Brave)

Nick: "the browser should present something without characteristcs" seems like confusing advice.  I think having randomness could be useful.  Something we're learning about.  I don't think it's feasible to present no characteristics.

Pete: remove "no characteristics" ?

Nick: .. last part about no identifiable characteristics. More fine with the MAY statement - it's true, in order to hide identity or provide privacy, browsers may try lots of things like false characteristics> Skeptical about prsenting nothing but I get it.

Dan: what's a false characteristic? Eg. sending windows as the UA string generically even though no matter what the architecture is? that kind of thing?

Pete: yes. Sometimes brave will report 8 cores instead of 16 to mess with fingerprinting. 

Don: Or languages or fonts.

Dan: right. And this gets back to general editorial feedback - sometimes the document is too high level. We should be clear about what we're talkinga bout as an example of characteristics. We know this. Not an exhaustive list, but.

Pete: I'd be happy to work to add a for example bullet points section

Dan: Nick, would modifying the text in the area that you drew attention to be more 'wishes to present an identity without .. ' to 'whilst minimising identifiable characteristics' or something like that be acceptable?

Nick: I'm not sure it's needed at all. Part of users having control is not never presenting any identity. A browser respecting a user's wishes.. i'd just delete that addition.

Pete: the change sounds fine to me, to delete 'no characteristsics or' and the third paragraph altogether?

Dan: and maybe include an example of characateristics

Pete: if that's satisfactory that's fine with me

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/167

Dan: he's suggesting to "browsr fingerprint identity"

Nick: I think it's confusing to put it together "browser fingerprint which could be another identifer" as a seperate bullet point.

Dan: Leave as a comment or suggeted change?


https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/162

Nick: this was an attempt to address the concerns about browsers sending reporting data that the user is not explicitly intending..  Maybe the user could reasonably understand. I suggested I would write some text on that.. And follow up with Shubhie... and that text would build...

Shubhie: also text around user  intentions - will chat about whether that's useful. .. one point raised in the PR is user's goals... user doesn't have one goal.  Sometimes they are discovering links - they don't want to engage with the website.  In other cases they have an ongoing brief engagement... when we say "user's goals" what do we mean?

Nick: we also got the suggestion from M. Thompson that aggregated type things might be things the browser might do on the user's behalf -- low risk and good from the ecosystem. Do others think that might be OK?  Aggregated stuff.

Don: I don't think we can say that aggregated is always less of a privacy concern... we have a section on vulnerable people... even something seeming innocuous might facilitate persecurtion. Let's not go too far in the direction of "aggregated is better that individual".

Dan: is aggegated data always for the public good? Is it open data? It's clearly good for the browser developer.

Don: If you're asked to take a survey on how well these features work for you would you do it? A user would not manually write down how long sites take to load, but they might say yes, I want my browser developer to have this information so the sites I like will work better for me.

Pete: should we say it's ok to send this information without being asked?

Nick: will write down a better suggestion.
