# TAG Privacy Task Force - Wed, 13 July 2022

Present: Dan, Don, Shubhie, Amy, Wendy, Pete, Christine, Tess
Regrets: Nick, Sam, Robin

## Continued Triage of Issues

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues

starting from where we left off [last week](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/blob/main/meetings/2022-07-06-minutes.md) (issue 93 last covered)

### [Privacy and Safety as joint goals #106](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/106)

Pete: wasn't this one that Robin wanted to take lead on? Four opened from google employees that Robin wanted to draft a response to

Dan: sounds good to me [assigns Robin who is not here to defend himself]. Is this captured in a PR we've already landed or are discussing?

Pete: vague memory.. Jeffrey drafted something?

Wendy: some in [#158](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/158) that's on hold

Shubhie: some of it has landed. Account security and support. Other stuff in flight and some not completely addressed. Tension with anti profiling designs. Lacking some clarity on how much to represent these sort of concerns, given that it's about privacy as opposed to security and other tradeoffs.

Wendy: I might have the same response to this set of issues as I had to the earlier issue ... yes absolutely and those are issues one level higher than this document. Yes there are many concerns other than privacy, and yes a holistic systems construction needs to think about those things. This document aims to give you the tools to think about privacy. If we try to encompass all of the things that come into tension with privacy we'll get into too big a problem, too many diverse sources of expertise to address. #106, #107, #108.

Dan: [left comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/106#issuecomment-1183420554)

Shubhie: makes sense. Trying to reconcile with the feedback we got from TAG about being actionable list of rules for spec authors and reviewers. If you are a spec author usuing this document, these are very pertinent tradeoff things. We should be linking them off or something.

Dan: I think there's a balance. As noted, we can do something. We shouldn't just say we can't do anything. But also Wendy's point stands as well.. 

Pete: seconding that. It's a guide to help do privacy reviews. The analog would be we're going to be as concerned about privacy as we can, but if people think that's the wrong mix of interests for a spec there are formal objections etc... but this is about privacy reviews, and the meta level balancing concerns is a different body or a different document

Don: [leaves comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/106#issuecomment-1183423814) I'm not in favour of putting anti-fraud vs privacy. In a lot of cases cross-context tracking is the activity and minimising it can be a way to both ameliorate fraud and protect privacy

### [wanted cross-context recognition](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/109)

Dan: Don already commented.. Seems in the same bucket as #106

Pete: agree

### [Should we make "context" more precise? #110](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/110)

Dan: Robin has added a writeme tag

### [Extract explicit principles from the document's text](Should we make "context" more precise? #111)

Dan: feel like we're doing this. CLosing.

Shubhie: do we need an explicit goal to have these principles also apply to websites? Our goal here is primarly from the UA perspective. The core. Site responsibility is not the focus of this work. True?

Christine: I agree that it makes sense to put a lot of focus on UA but what we're developing is privacy principles for the web, so if it's appropriate and we can say something useful we should also talk about what websites should be doing

Dan: I agree with that. I missed the nuance in the issue itself. I think we're doing this. There are a couple of parts in the document where we said websites should, browsers should. We're kind of doing that. Do we need to be more specific? Future work?

Shubhie: keeping in mind our audience. Expecting privacy reivwers and spec authors to be referencing this list so highlighting the most relevant content to them

Dan: should we leave this open?

Shubhie: we can close it but I'd like us to agree who the audience is for the document

Dan: I feel like we do have a good idea of what that is. Maybe we need to be more explicit... what do we say?

Pete: I'd also been thinking it's spec authors, which overlaps with UAs, but mostly people who are wrirting specs?

Dan: I don't think we do enough in abstract or how this document fits in to talk about different audiences

Tess: for instance, policy makers are an audience. We can rattle off a bunch of expected audience. Spec authors, people who work on browsers, who work on websites, who make policy decisions that affect browsers or websites.

Dan: new issue?

Shubhie: I can do that

Dan: I agree. I feel like it should be more than a list. If you are a spec author here is how you might engage with this document.. 

### [Make sure that principles aren't too UA-specific](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/112)

Dan: related to #111 but don't think we should close it. Back burner. Something we need to do as an editorial pass.

### [Merge actor and party](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/113)

Dan: bound into whole discussion about what is a party.. has this been overtaken by events? Have we dealt with this by defining what we mean by party? I feel like we've dealt with this

Pete: if Robin disagrees he can reopen it

### [high-level strategies for ways to reify principles](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/118)

Dan: look at this when Nick is back

### [Endorse logged-out website use](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/120)

Pete: does this need a special issue? Seems implicit

Tess: let me pretend to be Jeffrey for a second.. he's concerned with changes to the web platform that are intended to improve privacy that have the knock on effect of reducing a siet's ability to do things like 'article limit for the month' kind of tracking. What he fears is that because of that sites like that will be incentivsed to force everyone to long in to see everything, thus reducing privacy. I see the point. But I worry that it's stop energy. An argument that doesn't necessarily propose alternatives. "Let's not improve privacy because we might cause this to happen." I agree with Jeffrey in his second sentence starting "but" is the crux of it. When we're looking to add a princpiple like this, what purpose is this text serving? If it's propping up an existing bad practice, I don't feel like we need to do that. They're already propping themselves up well. We should be focussing on beset practices.

Dan: I could see there being a place for recommendation to websites that points out the privacy positive aspects of anonymous usage

Tess: if we more narrowly framed it like that that would work

Don: same site recognition.. a soft paywall is same site recognition. The idea that let's let people read a certain number of pages for free and then we will make them either subscribe or make an account, bu tin order to meter the number of pages that the same person sees for free you need pretty capable same site recognition. There's an unavoidable area of tension there. I dont' think we're going to solve it in this document. 

Christine: the issue arieses because we're focussing on logged in vs not logged in. We want the user to be able to experience the web in a way that they're not being identified and not being tracked. I think it's as Don pointed out, the principle we have about under the heading of same site recognition. I don't think we should shy away from that principle. We want the web to move towards users having that experience. Loggin in and making people do accounts is one form. Tracking pixels is another. What we want to do is say don't do the practice, whichever method. This is a privayc principle document, it's not about keeping businesses able to do what they're doing

Tess: right

Shubhie: to add context.. the industry heading towards.. we know that with various privacy initiatives we are finding that publishers are increasingly asking for login. I don't have a personal stance yet on this. I'd be curious what you all.. is that a real concern? From talking to various folks on this topic, some folks seem very concerned about it, that the industry is moving in this direction, it's undesirable, people are being forced to log in to consume news and do simple things more than before. On the other hand I hear the perspective that well that is what websites should be building their own engagement and creating their own relationship with their users. It's a normal thing that they should have been doing all along. I see both perspectives. Does this group have a take on this?

Tess: I think we should shy away from statements in this document about business models. Positive or negative. I don't think we should say there's some current business model on the web that must be preserved at all costs, and privacy must be one of those costs. Nor should we say there's some theoretical business model that can't be allowed to ever happen. That's part of the motivation but part of the trick.. hard to figure out for the doucment. Maybe we could add a bit of text to the same site recognition thin to flesh it out and cover more of this without going into endorsing particular business models.

Shubhie: yeah that makes sense to me. IN terms of.. I don't think it's about endorsing, so much as do we care.. when we put pressure in one place the industry shifts in a different way.

Tess: yeah. There's two cases where we hear about it a lot - one thing people say is improving privacy on the web will destroy the ad supported interent. Another thing people say is improving privacy on the web will push funding and users to less privacy perserving platforms, towards native apps etc. I don't really find either of those arguments terribly compelling. Mileage may vary. 

Pete: I vote for minimal document. To the degree we have exerptise as a group is about privacy, not direction of an industry. This is ways to do things in an ethical and private way, and folks respond to that as they will. Strong vote from me against saying if you are too private things break.

Dan: Potential abuse scenario - a commercial healthcare website that provides information about health diagnoses etc and that is starting to require people to log in and therefore is collecting data that can be supoenad if a certain health thing people are searching for is illegal in one place and legal in another. I do feel like there should be something in the same site recognition... I'm not really seeing those types of risks as being highlighted. Maybe we do need something there.

Tess: The specific service provider of the health information website I totally see your concern. The obvious bigger concern would be the search engine that you use to get there. WHy supoena a thousand health websites when you can go to the gateway. Do we want a statement about search engines not having their users login?

Christine: I think the principle is the web should not be tracking people and so it applies across websites, browsers, etc, 

Don: another issue which is how quickly can the operators of a harmful site relaunch on a totally new domain. It's very common that a site gets caught doing something, a scam etc, they take it down, and the same people relaunch it on a new domain. If that site is dependent on conventional third party cookie tracking, that process of shutdown and relaunch is fairly simple. If that site is dependant on having gotten users through a reg wall, now they've got to get people to register again and it's a much longer process. Like standing up a dishonest bank in a woodframe building or a stone building. The cost to a scammer of operating out of a hard to replicate facility is higher, changes to the risk-reward of practices that are harmful to users.

Dan: We can extract from this conversation some additional text for the same site discussion.

Shubhie: I need time to distill..

Dan: we need some straw text, there are so many factors. Better to talk in context of a PR. I'd suggest to put some text into a PR that we can talk about

Shubhie: I can try. I do think this requires a more dedicated discussion, but a PR will trigger that. I feel login is a really important elevated privilege on the web, it's hard to ignore this one. Even though I agree with the principle of staying clear of taking positions on things like this.






