# TAG privacy TF Call - 22 June 2022

Present: Dan, Don, Wendy, Nick, Pete, Sam, Jonathan, Robin
Regrets: Christine, Shubhie, Amy



## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/167

Pete: we discussed changes to those - and I discussed them with Kyle.  I was on the hook to ask him to make those changes.  I think the current text is good. If we're happy let's hit merge.

Don: I thinl 167 is good as is...

Robin: Yeah - I would add a comma before the "or".

Dan: Ok let's go ahead and merge?

**merged**

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/166

Don: also looks good - I like getting it into the doc - Yes you do have the right to surf the web as if you are [another persona].

Nick: it says "it should assume by default"... looks like intended to be a principel but not sure it's a good assumption.

Nick: i think it's intended to be a principle about data minimisation - i'm not sure it's a good way to describe it.

Robin: I agree with what he's trying to say - but a lot riding on "by default".  I also want the ability to share more.  Probably a way to say that differently. 

Nick: maybe cut and paste that text in whatever we do about data minimization?  

Robin: tempted to cut and paste a piece we like and reject the PR.

Nick: suggesting we copy and paste the other piece just so we don't lose it?

Robin: I make an issue of the bottom thing - and I will cut and paste the thing we like and reject the PR but [in a nice way].

Dan: can you mark your PR as having provenance from Kyle so that he gets "credit" as a contributor?

Robin: yes.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/170

Nick: we discussed data minimisation - the motivating context for pete's text - and should be a general strategy - and there was previous work in the TAG - never formally a finding - about data minimisation.  I thought we should take out the API design principles from that and put it here. Might make it more actionable for API designers.

Dan: I'm supportive.

Robin: that sounds like a good plan.

Nick: this is in the personal data section... do we want to keep it there or have data minimisation as a separate thing?  

Robin: I think it's worth breaking it out... I'm trying to walk through this doc as a typical standards editor looking for something to reference... looking at principles I would not think of going to personal data for that.  Strategies ... ?

Nick: I had [Issue 118](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/118) - mitigations...  I think having "data minimisation" in the ToC would be good. 

Robin: The idea of having principles discussed and strategies - might work well - could be some reshuffling there... having a section on very concrete things you can do with APIs... is good. For example a principle "support people's autonomy" and strategy for implementing.

Dan: design principles - as an example as document web api designers have engaged with and had good feedback on.

## Issues Triage

Robin: we need to do some issues triage...

Dan: can we tick through those in next week's call.
