# Privacy TF Call - 16 November 2022

Present: Nick, Dan, Don, Christine, Jeffrey, Robin

Regrets: Amy, Sam, Peter, Tess, Wendy

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/193

Dan: I reviewed. should apply to web standards beyond W3C. (others: yes!)

Jeffrey: last paragraph could be shorter, suggested different wording.

Christine: also for people ...  ... who want to know about principles for web privacy. web developers

Nick: applicable to the end user who cares about privacy?

Jeffrey: I think it's dangerous... if a user reads this and thinks "i'm prottected because this doc" - false sense of security.

Nick: people can read this doucment even 

Dan: others can read it.

Robin: it's context... 

Dan: merge, modulo changes.

Jeffrey: putting web developers in primary audience... 

Don: will move to primary audience.

Jeffrey: then no obkjection to merging after the fixes are in.

Don: **to merge**

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/195

Nick: 2 related things - there was already a section on unwanted info - it's very useful. A lot of things about online harassment will be in that section.. there can be online harassment that's not just communicated to the person that's being harassed. Wanted to provide some citations.  On principles: "Systems that allow for communicating on the Web must provide an effective capability to report abuse."  ... that's the summary...  Would welcome more detailed principles...

Robin: left a few small notes

Jeffrey: we can't just call out lgbtq and women without other groups... maybe just "any disadvantaged / more likely to be a victim of harassment"... 

Nick: the citation has info on those groups... I'm also fine with just making the claim about "marginilized".

Robin: we can cite that study as indicating.. but also more... There's a way of citing the..

Jeffrey: the study lists race as well...

Dan: more impactful to provide a longer listing of impacted groups, with "and other marginalized groups"

Christine: and note that anyone can encounter harassment

Don: also people who didn't know they were in a group
https://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/dv500info.pdf <- info on domestic violence restraining order.. People in a domestic violence situation and immediately need protection from privacy violation from people who used to be trusted people. and this is a hard problem.

Dan: also disabled... neurodivergent....

Nick: One other question i'd like feedback on - should we have a principle that we need to make it possible to establish rules... 

Nick: if you're going to develop a new protocol for sending messages you should have ways to provide a link to the code of conduct...

Jeffrey: whatever app has a privacy policy linked...

Nick: mailing lists are a good example....

Jeffrey: they all have a sign up page and a unsub page -- could have a CoC.

Robin: email RFCs require to be a report@ and abuse@... maybe not effectve but they have it... 

Nick: good example of practice...

Christine: ability to block harasser is useful

Jeffrey: +1

Nick: +1

Nick: you need some way to share the blocking...

Dan: we need to keep it high level

Nick: on sharing blocklists - we could make it more high level like "pooling mitigations" - if you were to design a protocol in such a way tha someone can send messages en masse and no way to link the sender -- that would be a bad design for harassment.  

Nick: i won't add the CoC thing but will make changes on impacted groups... and on pooling blocklists and mitigation - there's a bullet point in unwanted info is that oK?

Jeffrey: I think what is there is fine.

Jeffrey: it's hard for us to require enforcement as protocol designers...

Christine: i am in favor of enforcement - however in this case we should not speak to the requiement of enforcement unless it's technical enforcement (e.g. encryption to enforce confidentiality).

Dan: +1

Don: comes back to the idea of enabling parties to share their own policies... if you're a party then you put a file in .wellknown and say that's our policy - if it's enforced by law that's out of our space. If there's a web standard... document how a party can share its policies with users and with other parties 

**agreed to merge**

Nick to revise, share asynchronously and get it resolved/merged in lieu of a meeting next week

## Vulnerability

*christine to do a PR based on text she's been working on*

Nick: principle?

Christine: principle of "degrade gracefully"

Dan: **Feature detection and graceful degration should take into account the idea that some functionality might be traded for increased privacy.** maybe?

**Christine to write PR**

Nick: Should there be guidance for people designing features that "you should make it safe".  Even for people in vulnerable situations... 

Christine: design as if all your users are vulnerable...

Don: or "your users don't know that they're going to become vulnerable due to a family crisis"

Dan: let's start with this and then iterate.
