# TAG Privacy Taskforce

Wednesday, 26 January 2022

Present: Dan, Wendy, Jeffrey, Nick, Christine, Robin, Tess

Regrets: Pete, Amy

## [The PR](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/102)

Robin: I'm in the process of going through feedback. I will keep reviewing.
Seeking: is this the right direction?
What's the best approach to tackling this, break it up into separate PRs?

Dan: How can we help you today?

Robin: I've been merging proposed changes to the PR as I go.
Re workflow, if we think this is the right direction, I could merge and work from there, rather than having to keep rebasing.

Dan: Are we happy to commit the major change and then continue to discuss? But want to make sure we don't lose the inline discussions.

Robin: We could resolve what's there, commit, and then move forward in a new PR.

DKA: let's go through some issues/comments.

Jeffrey: Suggest we talk through [Christine's comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/102#issuecomment-1020663736). Most of mine are just wording suggestions.
Then, the questions whether Robin's overall structure: understanding principles then flat list, vs more structured list. We can reorder before we've written all the content.

Robin: could merge, then consider more structure. Open to discussion on framing, though I wasn't a fan of "how the world sees us"

DKA: If we start flat, we can introduce categorization later. Path of least resistance?
Principles, then discuss categorization after FPWD?

[Christine's comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/102#issuecomment-1020663736)

Christine: First, an issue Nick also raised. "Rules" or some other terminology. I proposed "guidelines," not wedded to that term, but concerned about "rules."

Robin: Heard similar feedback from several. But throught the lens of institutional analysis. "institutional statements" isn't a great term. What if we change rule to principle? Don't want to try distinguishing rule/norm/strategy per institutional analysis.
I'm trying to capture intellectual rigor and readability.

DKA: also trying to align with other TAG documents.

Tess: +1

Nick: +1

Christine: next comment, structure comparable to web platform design principles.
 Section 1, change heading to "introduction... " vs "understanding". Just introduce enough for the user to understand privacy principles. "Here's the definition". The intro is how the Web is all about information flows, so this is why we care about privacy of information flows.
 There are great ideas here, but think more of the audience.

Robin: Want to also hear from others. Want to give people enough knowledge to fish for themselves without making it daunting, but willing to hear that I'm not succeeding. I'm trying to do what you're saying, but I hear it's not working as-is.


Dan: It does that to a certain degree. Could use some editing down, but is mostly quite good. Like Christine's re-title. Should start off with... -1 to trying to define "The Web" in this document. Should talk about how the web deals with information. Some sentences to put this into the context of the web. Not trying to define "privacy" or "digital privacy" but just in the context of the Web.

Nick: [chat] I like christine's proposed title, and it could start with the web is for everyone and the information flows para

Christine: Was hoping there was a consensus view of what is the Web.

Christine: Sec 2, not sure "different context requires different rules" is correct. Do we need to say that at all? Rather, privacy considerations change with context.

Robin: will look for better way to formulate. Not saying you must change rules when changing context.

Christine: concerned that "context" may be too indeterminate for users of the doc. More detail in the comment.

Jeffrey: I was trying to say two things in opposite directions. 1, we should help users separate their identities in idfferent contestx; 2, if user wants to share/present an identity, the UA should support that. Let user pick their identity. Agree context is vague, more that different situations may call for different identities. Maybe two principles.

DKA: Partitioning may be loaded

Robin: intersection with cookie partitioning

DKA: there are already product uses, non-uniformity

Christine: separate may be even better than partition.

Robin: I like Jeffrey's proposed rewrite ("User agents should help their users present the identity those people want in each situation (context) they find themselves in.")

Jeffrey: can involve different identities from different sites, or the same identity across sites

Nick: context as a defined term

Jeffrey: we can do better at defining context.

DKA: does that resolve?

Robin: don't lose: rewriting the principle,

Jeffrey: separate PR

Robin: another issue to make contexts more precise.

DKA: make an issue

Robin: I'll do the context issue, Jeffrey, you have the principles.

Nick: re framing principles, good to have examples. All the ones we have so far are phrased as normative requirements on UA. At principle level, not sure we want to focus on one particular actor. The web should support autonomy, etc. Not just UA requirements. We'll need different actors to support these principles.

Jeffrey: as someone who works for a UA, I'd like us to be clear where the responsibilities fall. We should have application to UAs, sites, and be clear who bears responsibility for different parts.

Nick: ideal if we have consensus on where the responsibility is.

DKA: we shouldn't shy away from talking about UAs or make it ambiguous

Christine: Heard Nick saying keep the principles for UAs, and consider upleveling core principle to apply to multiple actors

DKA: how should we reframe?

Robin: Support the idea, but right now, much of the text is not written as principles. hard to rephrase.
Make an issue but deliberately wait?

DKA: also worried about adding verbiage and making more complicated. If we're talking about browsers should, not adding excess text.
Declarative statements.

Nick: Short-term, if the only principles we have are "browsers should" in draft 1, people will think this is a browser doc.

[Filed https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/111 to discuss how to extract principles]

Christine: last question, not sure the use case approach for structuring principles is right, but we won't know until we've gone through. Might make more sense to thematically align principles re minimization, identity, etc. Just flagging.

Robin: Hierarchical categorization is a struggle, always

Christine: agree we don't need to do it now. Just note that final structure could change.

Robin: can move any substantial comments to new issues for discussion, then land this merge.

DKA: Not suggesting that makes FPWD, wait after the merge for review, perhaps some additional PRs next week

## New Topic [105](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/105)

Jeffrey: I showed 105 to our anti-abuse people, added some things based on their comments. Talk about how we balance places that privacy and safety are in conflict.

DKA: what's the change?

Jeffrey: Go through 105, see what makes sense for the doc. It's a new section, mostly examples

Robin: who is "we"?

Jeffrey: "web community", both privacy and anti-abuse, working together.

Robin: replace with "web community"

Wendy: As a way to handle this tension as principles, we could say "these are privacy principles; we acknowledge that there are other principles that are in tension, and there are other documents that discuss those"

Nick: +1, I think it' likely many will come forward with other principles, asking us to say "make clear privacy doesn't override". Maybe safety is different because it's also about privacy.

Jeffrey: at the top of the doc, we should say "this is one of the ethical web principles, they may sometimes come into conflict, one doesn't always override". This text tried to balance. I had an open question, what do you do when it's the service's safety vs user privacy; limitations on not using for growth, etc.

DKA: I'm disinclined to give an out for those who have commercial interests in not providing privacy, by reference to "safety". Consider the UK example of "child safety" railing against end-to-end encryption

Robin: agree we have to be careful. Worried about justifying private police forces.  There are plenty of cases where companies are valuably contributing to safety. We should surface that it is policing, and policing needs to be governed collectively. Difficult articulation. "Safety" is weaponized both ways, to justify more processing, or to cut off safety features if user opts for privacy. So I'd like these issues captured here.

DKA: Privacy and safety are both goals, but don't think this doc can define the interface.
Might some of the items be better placed in societal impacts doc?

Robin: I'd rather keep it here.

Nick: Scoping, safety is privacy-relevant. You need to prevent hacking as a privacy issue. Some other issues, such as fraud, are elsewhere.

Jeffrey: how do you classify sock-puppet detection?

Nick: depends on what it's for. Anti-harassment has privacy impact; voting isn't a privacy issue.

Jeffrey: Manipulating public opinion could be a privacy issue.

Robin: is

Jeffrey: a lot of anti-fraud is about how to stop the proliferation of new accounts when an old one is blocked. e.g. a more private source of reputation information. Under what rules would that data be governed, two different privacy interests.

DKA: I'm worried about the level of detail. Think we need to pare down, with reference to the scope.
We can't solve all the world's problems here.

Jeffrey: I think it's important to address some of the issues privacy is in tension with, so people take it seriously

Robin: ack tension, state false dichotomy, say some safety issues are privacy issues. I feel fairly strongly against private police forces.

DKA: don't think we can make that last statement in this doc. I'm not sure we should have principles coming out of this discussion, rather it's part of the framing.

Robin: I think we could have some principles, like the direction of Jeffrey's addition, if not all the details

Jeffrey: I can try to tease them apart. Including safety of service less important than safety of users

Nick: Separate task to put something in the intro to note tensions with other ethical web principles

DKA: Going forward, Jeffrey will make some changes to 105 and we'll re-review
Robin will restructure/merge 102












