# Privacy TF Call - 4 Jan 2023

Present: Robin, Don, Dan, Wendy, Amy, Jeffrey, Nick, Christine

Regrets: Pete

## [Robin's editorial PR](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/208)

Robin: took all of jeffrey's changes except one...

*discussion*

Dan: I've left a comment that when we jump right into section 1, we're leaving unsaid that before we get into the technical guidelines that spec developers might be looking for, we're going to spend some time explaining the context and what we need when we say privacy. I don't know how to say that tersely. If you're looking for technical guidelines just jump to section 2, but to understand them you really need to have this conceptual framework in mind. including things like privacy labour and things like that. Trying to figure out how to sugar coat it a bit so people realise why they need to read this.

Robin: the two sentences you put in the comment work. I don't think it needs more.

Dan: and after we land this PR I think I have an idea of doing a subsequent simplification edit that may make things ... one of the feedbakc points I've had from people, especially not native english speakers... this PR already does a lot to simplify. After that i want to do another simplification readthrough.

Robin: Agreed

Dan: to make sure we're not bombarding people

Wendy: +1 to merge

Amy: +1 to merge

Nick: +1 to merge

Dan: +1

*we agree to squash and merge the PR*

## [PR: Tension within anti-profiling designs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/158)

Jeffrey: adds an example that I think is useful but if the group thinks it's not a good idea we should just close it

Don: I'd say leave mention of IPA out of this if we want to get it reviewed on a reasonable timeframe because IPA has a lot of complexity to it and there are aspects I still don't understand so this is nerdsniping people into taking too much time to read this if they have to understand IPA. Preventing profiling being not a good thing in general but tying it to a specific math/game theory problem makes it harder to review the document

Jeffrey: I can make that mention more general if that helps to merge

Robin: making it clear that IPA is an example.. I see what Don is saying, I feel a less strong version of the same thing. I personally like IPA but if you have to understand IPA to understand the point that's going to take time> I think it's a good thing to include, but making it something like for an example an attribution API... you could list several..

Jeffrey: even the most privacy respecting conversion API will still reveal a limited amount of information. Will try to genericise it

Robin: suggest that Jeffrey gets leeway to genericise it and then land it. I don't feel the need to re-review it.

Jeffrey: drafted..

Nick: that's the feedback Wendy and I got into back in May.. I'd tend to leave it out, I wouldn't want to make it a primary part of this document, making privacy decisions based on how people are going to react and move to other apps..

Jeffrey: primary to remind people designing systems that they should be thinking about second order effects even if they don't know what they are going to be

Nick: Wendy, does that make sense?

Wendy: I like the rewrite in toning down the attention. I don't feel strongly. Probably if it gets a lot of response in feedback, it might be better to take it out than to go into all of the layers.

Nick: sounds fine to me

Jeffrey: will rebase, incorporate change, and merge it

## The Wide Review Plan

Dan: request for wider review - AC-Forum and Chairs mailing lists; PING group;

Jeffrey: collection of CGs - anti-fraud; privacy; Private Advertising Technologies

Wendy: web performance and devices & sensors folks...

Don: prebid.org ?

Robin: ICO?

Dan: civil society groups?  EFF?   CDT?

Nick: I would like to more than traditional audiences....

Dan: was thinking about writing an intro to send to w3c working groups. Would it be helpful top ublish that as well as a TAG blog post? Which links to the draft?

Amy: will we send it out to different groups at different times, or ask for all feedback all at once?

Dan: I don't think we have bandwidth to design a staged approach. Key is the wording - it's preliminary, we're open to suggestions and want to get this right

Amy: be clear we are asking for a middle level of feedback - not high level fundamentals or detailed/editorial but like missing topics, glaring errors, etc...

Jeffrey: and we want to hear about it now if we're going to get FOs, even about fundamental things

Don: The [Clinic to End Tech Abuse](https://www.ceta.tech.cornell.edu/) could be a good group to get review from relating to vulnerable people

Nick: I think that's a good idea, that outreach to civil society orgs plan, and have contacts there. I do think the blog post part there with context would be extremely important for non w3c regulars. These documents should be written in such a way that there is context at the top and github and ways to send feedback, but for people who aren't familiar with that process they're going to need a blog post to say what is this, why does it matter, what are you looking for, would be a lot less intimidating.

Dan: I'll draft. Would like to do this async before next week's call.

Nick: the readiness, or stages of review... I like the idea of saying we're asking for early feedback, but also if we can fix more things first it will help the reviewers not to get confused

Amy: risk of reviewer burnout, if there's feedback that it's hard to follow, then we ask them for review again they might be less willing

Dan: we can update ac forum to let them know how we're doing and say we're open to feedback, but it's still going through editorial review

Jeffrey: Amy's right that we can't ask people multiple times, we should be sure we're asking the right thing. depends how quickly we can get it into a good editorial shape. Will we be able to get it into shape and then ask for review?

Robin: makes sense
