# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 31 May 2023

Present: Robin, Don, Pete, Dan, Wendy, Jeffrey, Sam, Tess

## [processing is sensitive](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/242)

Robin: only comment that may be contentious is the last one... 

Jeffrey: we say something very similar in the disloyalty PR so this is redundant.

**no objections to Jeffrey's amendments**

Pete: privacy labour shhould be mentioned here.

Jeffrey: good point but separate PR... we can mege and improve further.

**merged**

## [disloyalty](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/269)

Robin: Jeffrey says it's an improvement if not perfect... 

Sam: my eyes getting caught by "in the person's interest" and "potentially conflicts" - lack of parallelism? 

Robin: I think it's intentional. If there's a risk it conflicts the person's interest you're already in hot water.

Don: you don't know what your downstream interests are with personal information - if this info about me is collecteed and process it may be used to my advantage later, or not. No way to tell if your information is being used in your interest downstream.  So we need "potentially"

Pete: I think we need - 2nd change - previously that said "users" - right? 

Robin: nnnnnn yes.

Jeffrey: "a person" is too vague. .. responding to Sam's concern - this sentence doesn't define disloaytly - that's 2 sententences before. It says "think about".

Wendy: unconvoluted ...

*discussion*

**merged**

## [Clarifying identity vs legal identity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/270)

**no objections heard**

## Wide Review

Robin: ICO are coordinating to provide feedback...

... we're getting close the bottom of the wide review issues. At some point soon we should be comfortable enough to say we have done wide review...


