# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 25 January 2023

present: Dan, Pete, Robin, Don, Christine, Nick, Jeffrey, Sam, Wendy, Tess
Regrets: Amy

## Progress on the milestone

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/214

JY: changes a citation ... should be straightforward

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/215

DM: We discussed at the last meeting - UA has an obligation to act on behalf of the user - even regarding aggregated data. If sharing the data would advance the interest of the user then UA should do it - but not act against the interest of the user.

Pete: some overlap with #216

Sam: looks good on its own, though I wish it had an Oxford comma

Nick: not sure I follow the example... if we want to say something about web advertising maybe we get into that in more detail? what do we conclude from this? actionable example?

DM: if we could do a seperate advertising-related doc we could start that but not sure we have the mandate. Still concerned that UAs would filter ... either act on the interest of the user or.. apply math that conceals the user's identity. I think it's important that "always acting in the interest of the user" is a must. 

Pete: I think the principle is already expressed.. I think we need to tweak it a little..  necessary but not sufficient condition.  Also I don't think advertising should be part of this doc.

JY: I like the overall idea of the para but I think we can make it shorter - and shorter would be worth having.  

DM: I understand ... implied from the rest of the docs .. but intense set of commercial interests... trying to push the limits of what client softwate can do in the interest of other parties.. implied is not enough, needs to be clear.

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/216

Pete: Don's point ... only in the user's inetrest.  Also effort to remove text that isn't vital to the section... also browsers should only share in line with user's interest.

JY: I like the new principle.

RB: I like the principle too... 

Nick: Not persuaded that rewrite is necessary...  I don't mind the additional principle but I think it restates things elsewhere.. We have an open issue on aggregate data #165 - but these edits are not about 165.  These are more about 150 and 182.  

*we agree not to merge right now but to work in the PR*

Sam: propose to merge #215 now and rebase #216

Jeffrey: I just proposed a big change to #215.  Would rather merge 215 into 216.  I'm not sure people will support that change.

Don: I'm fine with Jeffrey's change to 215

Dan: so bring that into 216?

Don: Sure. reject 215, move to 216.

## Closing issues

Robin: close 187 and 165 and 98?  98 is from an old MNot issue; text has been changed, maybe not enough?

## 98

Nick: I'm not sure I share the original objection.  I'm fine closing.

Robin: originally could have been read two ways; this was to clarify.

Jeffrey: I agreed with the complaint.  I agree the changes fix things.

*discussion on fruit*

*consensus to close*

## 187

RB: A pr that has been merged. (#177)

JY: I made a comment in 177 that some things were removed that were useful so this issue is about getting them back.

Nick: expand?

RB: I think we fixed this another PR

JY: section bounderies - got taken - so maybe not a problem any more.

RB: yeah that's a change I made after Amy's change #177. 

JY: I will go through it pffline and close if appropriate.


