# Privacy TF Minutes - Wed, 18 Jan 2023

* Present: Jeffrey, Robin, Don, Amy, Pete, Wendy, Christine
* Regrets: Dan
* Scribe: Amy

## [PRs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+sort%3Acreated-asc)

### [Improve explanation of how this document relates to laws and regulation. #210](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/210)

Jeffrey: Wendy has a comment, I have no opinion

Wendy: if we can avoid using the word 'regulate' and use 'affect' instead it might get less negative reaction

Jeffrey: I do have a slight opinion...

Robin: are we writing this to avoid feedback from specific people or to say what we actually mean. I actually do think this regulates privacy

Wendy: it regulates in a way that we who have engaged deeply with the question understand, but those encountering it for the first time or newer to the space see 'regulation' as something governments do, and it's a more academic meaning to think about the different forces that regulate

Don: ultimately we're going to get concerns about this document either way, regardless of terminology. There's going to have to be a  level of education on what we believe the responsibility of the user agent to be that is just going to be counterintuitive for some participants in the market

Jeffrey: might help to cite Lessig here

Wendy: Code and other laws of cyber space

Jeffrey: Agree to merge with citation?

### [Refine the definition of "context" to avoid re-using "purpose". #212](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/212)

Jeffrey: based on a comment left in the source by Robin. Suggested definition..

Robin: initial reason I had purpose is because you can be in the same physical or digital space, with the same people, but if the purpose of that interaction changes then the rulesl that govern expectations of privacy can change. You can be at work having a meeting with the same people or whether it's personnel review or planning the year end party they're different contexts. This is not purposes in the sense of defined term purposes, those are different purposes. We don't need to be super specific. True to note Helen doesn't have a good definition of what a context is. If you go to other more modern iterations it gets heavy..

Jeffrey: people might join a context for a different purpose than others, but still be the same context.

Robin: I think this is okay

Amy: seems defined in terms of itself, using context in the definition

Jeffrey: boundaries between contexts are the ways people understand them.. meant to be vague and rely on peoples intuition

[nods to merge]

### [Replace most uses of "party" with "actor", except for 1P, 3P, and 🥳. #213](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/213)

Jeffrey: a lot of changes but not significant. Moved core definition of actor down. Suspect we can remove first-and third-party from the document entirely with some work. Not essential for the principles. But want to do that in a different PR.

Robin: another discussion about whether they are useful to have as a reference point. Works a lot better. Nitpick - I think there are sufficiently few references that we could break the anchor.

Jeffrey: I left it because that section talks about parties more often than it talks about actors. The serverside actors are the things we talk about as the first and third party.


## [Issues](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/milestone/2)

### [Contributing to an aggregate](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/165)

Pete: serious concerns with the text in place, from #184 PR

Pete: I suggest we remove the list of observed uses in the wild. Even among this group it causes confusion as a possible endorsement rather than an observation, not worth the confusion.

Jeffrey: I think we need some definition. Right now it's defined just using the examples. Shorter is better. We should replace that.

Pete: I can come up with concrete suggestions there

Robin: Feels like what we're trying to deifne as ancilliary uses is data processing that isn't' intended to be about people but that involves people as a side effect sort of? You want to know the features the browser is hitting. Are there lots of this type of element.. or aggregate things about how a system works in a way that does have a privacy impact becuase there are people in the system but it's not the people you're intersted in

Pete: some are definitely about people, not just the software

Jeffrey: for webperf Robin is right, not trying to profile people. But there are ancilliary uses that is about people, especially about advertising and targeting. Maybe we need two buckets to talk about.

Robin: I think telemetry and personalisation are weird to have in the same bucket

Don: There's an obligation for the user agent to act on behalf of the user. That also applies to aggregated data. So if you have a user agent that says I'm going to do telemetry for the purpose of improving compatibility and performance of the user agent, then that is a good example of acting on behalf of the user. When we get into the advertising use cases, just because it's aggregfated doesn't remove that duty to work for the user. One use case of aggregated data collection across multiple contexts is in order to enable advertising service providers to deliver advertising on resources that are of lower value to the user. And somehow achieve some advertising goal while providing the user less in ad supported content. From the pov of the user their interest in particpating in advertising is I want to get the maximum ad supported content for the minimum investment of my time and computing resources. Aggregation does not relieve the user agent of the duty to act in the interest of the user. Even and probably especially in those advertising exchange of attention for content.

Nick: I don't think anythign in the text says that aggregation is an option to avoid any of the other duties. We give specific examples. I think the list of examples is useful. I'd be happy to read more detailed definitions that would be alternatives. If it is going to cover those examples but people aren't going to understand that from the defintiion I think it's likely to be more confusing than clear. True that telemetry and analytics is different, that's why we have two such definitions

Jeffrey: I liked don's point about the user agent needing to work for the user in helping with advertising. That might be a useful thing to ad to the discussion of that group of ancilliary uses. Don are you interested in writing that?

Don: I can take that. I think it's a fairly small amount of text.

Jeffrey: Pete will try to refine the definition, remove the examples but keep it clear and Nick can review. Don will refine description of what the UA will do.

Pete: On line 117 we call it a cluster of ancilliary uses - that's a confusing term. Not sure what is being described

Jeffrey: the first two examples maybe the second to last also, if you group those as a cluster, then we call that telemetry and analytics. Definitely hear that it's confusing.

Pete: just examples? categories? Can do a PR for that.

Pete: [...intrusive or costly] .. seems like text that might happen sometiems without saying it's good or bad, so not clear why this text is in the document.

Jeffrey: do we think this is good or bad?

Pete: depends on the mechanisms.. and 18 different things.. so text isn't carrying any weight.

Nick: intended to be informative rather than a normative principle. Explanatory to help epeople who are reading this document and encountering these topics in detail for the first time to understand why someone is suggesting one of these mechanisms.

Jeffrey: sounds like an example of someone might suggest a mechanism that we would be skeptical of on its own and we justify it by saying it's there so we can reduce use of this other worse thing

Pete: I understand that as a point, but it's not clear to me what's gained by having this text int he document. Seems to suggest there are tradeoffs to be made, but doesnt' say what they are, or when it is or isn't an appropriate thing to do. It's not normative, but nevertheless seems to add confusion without corresponding benefit. i'd prefer less descriptive text, or have it focus on the prescriptive elements.

Jeffrey: feedback I've got is the document is too long, so I'd like to be on the lookout for things we can remove. It's worth pointing that kind of thing out.

Pete: next, a section "different users.. with websites". This phrase seems confusing because it starts by using 'users' to talk about people but then uses 'uses' right afterwards. Confusing word choices.

Jeffrey: users could be people

Pete: the paranthetical seems out of place, unrelated to the sentence.

Jeffrey: this sentence is too long.

Nick: the paranthetical was to include something we discussed on several calls, about the explanation fo one way to understand willing to participate.

Pete: I remember that, but do you feel like much would be lost if we removed it?

Nick: my understanding is that people in this group refer to it as an important consideration

Pete: I really dislike the thought exercise of what would a hypothetical person do in a different world, personally

Jeffrey: I think that is how we make decisions as a browser. We can't ask the user about everything so we have to think what they would have decided given time and knowledge..

Pete: we should not assume users have knowledge they don't, and be conservative about users won't understand this so we shouldn't do it

Jeffrey: definitely room for browsers to differ on that question, but more than just chrome make decisions using this kind of guideline

Pete: agree that happens. Anyone feel strongly about keeping it?

Jeffrey: I think ti should not be a paranthetical. The sentence is confusing. But I'd like to keep the concept.

Pete: maybe it depends on how it gets reintegrated. We can come back to it.

Pete: "aggregate data... acceptable".. acceptable to who and under what basis and how we know?

Jeffrey: I think acceptable to the web platform, and to the TAG/W3C as a whole

pete: I disagree, I don't think it is acceptable

Don: we need to be really careful about that, there are a lot of people waving aggregation and mathematical properties of aggregation over things in order to provide a halo of protection to them and that's not necessarily acting in the interest of the user

Jeffrey: this paragraph nods to that by saying "often more likely" rather than "is". It says aggregation helps but may not help enough. We could be clearer about that

Don: this can't be one of those transformative spells that turns evil things into good things

Pete: maybe we agree. If the intend is to say sometimes it's okay to capture stuff in an aggregate form that wouldn't be okay in a nonaggregate form, that's not objectionable

Jeffrey: I think that's what it's trying to say

Pete: I can revise text to say that.

Pete: "agents should... conservative" .. seems odd. Should be conservative in using data minimisation?

jeffrey: it's backwards

Pete: also don't think we should use the term privacy labour. Seems like it's inverting.. that the labour is asking people to do a thing..

Robin: I think it's trying to say just asking people isn't enough to make this fine

Pete: sure. I see it as a reason to not ask here, instead of to not do the thing.

Jeffrey: in some cases we would decide that the thing is fine and doesn't reveal user information and so we would just do it and not ask in order to avoid prompt fatigue. I think this paragraph is endorsing that and we may disagree about whether taht's appropriate

Pete: I think that's true, a core disagreement here

Robin: I think it's fien for different browsers to make different decisions here as well

Pete: if this is a principles document to guide people we should say something more than different peopl ehave different opinions> We have a whole lot of different people do different stuff text

Nick :this was many months of conversaitons. a very repeated comment in this group was we did not want this suggestion about conservatism to be users should be constantly asked about everything. There was clear feedback that that was burdening people and we did not want to endorse that. What I thought was agreed upon was you should both be cautious and not just dump it all on the user

Pete: I agree with that, but it seems unrelated to ancilliary data. It's it's own thing, for any kind of data

Nick: sure, privacy labour was not just in this section

Jeffrey: Getting this in was an important contribution and wer'e moving it forward again. I think there's something here that we could say .. we don't want questions of whether to support an ancilliary use to cause lot sof extra prompts, and browsers should be careful about whether they're opting people in, or using the need for a prompt to not support it. I don't think we should recommend one or the other, but think about not doing it, if you need to do it make sure it's in the users interest but dont' impose privacy labour

Pete: first part makes a lot of sense. Make sure it's in peoples interst.s I don't see why this is a distinbct privacy labour concern. We could drop it without losing anything.  We talk about it elsewhere. It's an important concept independant of ancillary data. We should be concerned about privacy labour here as in all cases.

Jeffrey: I could buy that this belongs elsewhere, or it's already there

Nick: we have a specific example becuase it came up so often, and talking about telemetry, and the particular list of additional things beyond the users intent in ancilliary uses, and make a suggestion about how not to have that happen

Pete: I remember those conversations. Does anyone think in the current state we still need that?

Jeffrey: I'm not confident that it should be removed, but would be happy to see what a patch to remove it looks like. I'd have to look where else we say something similar. Maybe in this section we could refer to that statement instead of repeating it.

Pete: Okay, I will be mindful of that.

Pete: "specifications... note analytics.. user choices" seems unrelated to privacy princples

Nick: specific request from Pete that we should ask spec authors to do that to make it easier for tools that want to provide more choices to group them

Jeffrey: we could say this mroe clearly. If a specification is defining telemetry and analytics it should identify that so that users can turn it on or off either individually or by changing their browser's mode.

Pete: makes sense to me

Jeffrey: I think that's a change to the end.. "so that browsers know to expose a setting to control it"

Pete: "sites and browsers wish to collect telemetry data..." .. a suggestion about different browser vendors might do different things. It's an odd fit for a principles document. It's a good thing that browsers ought to do, but weird as a principle.. not a principle

Nick: this is an example

Jeffrey: we've talked about tryign to have techniques  and this is one of those

Nick: if the group would rather have the principles document not contain examples or descriptive text that would certainly make it shorter. The sense I got from previous discussions was we specifically wanted to give an example of how this could be done in such a way that did not introduce additional labour and have a positive example, and there was the most agreement about including this.

Pete: do others share my concern? The principles get obsucred by having lots of non normative text in examples?

Robin: I feel things are called out pretty clearly in terms of presentation. It helps to make things understandable

Jeffrey: I think we do need to keep paying attention to shortening the document and make it more concise. But a lot of the examples and descriptive text are important for understanding how to apply the principles. So we can shorten but not remove important things. This example in particular is a useful technique for making analytics work well, so we should keep it.

Pete: okay. I have todos for a bunch of things we all agree on stylistically, then a more substantive change that will require more discussion.

Nick: concerned that we had a bunch of discussions and merged this and are now revisiting. But maybe surfacing that we don't have consensus.
