
# TAG Privacy TF Minutes - Wed, 19 July 2023

Present: Wendy, Dan, Don, Nick, Sam, Christine, Robin, Pete
Regrets: Amy, Jeffrey, Tess

## [editorial pass](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/334)

Robin: too long for off the cuff but people should look at it

## [transparency section](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/288)

Nick: I'm working on this based on comments from Jeffrey & Robin.  

Nick: I think "sites" should provide and "UAs" should consume it... Correct?

Robin: I think it's whoever doing the processing - generally the site. The question of UA.. I do like the idea of making things machine readable - as a principle it should be possible ...

**we will review next week**

## [potential small group privacy examples](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/289)

Nick: can we merge?

Pete: should we use "example" markup? Happy with the text.

Nick: Happy for editors to make it an example..

Robin: I'll merge and then make a new issue about being consistent about examples.

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/335

289 merged.

Nick closed corresponding https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/251

**so moted**

## [self-governing](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/291)

Robin: in my editorial pass (334) i got rid of this...

Dan: so close 291?

**agreed to close**

## [global opt-out](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/296)

**agreed to merge on Jeffrey's approve**

Pete: some vagueness - I can do another PR... Interaction -- with who?

Robin: the site?

*discussion*

*we agree to slightly modify it to be "interaction with the site."

## Wide Review Comments

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/276

Pete: I think these could be moved to the privacy threat model document...

Robin: I'd be comfortable moving it somwhere...

Dan: let's just remove the reference to supercookie...  

Pete: happy with that

Nick: I'd like to move this somewhere ... I disagree that nobody talks about it. It's a concept that comes up. We should have it defined.

Pete: I can creat a new document in the Ping repo somewhere...

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/277 

Nick: Same ...

Pete: I will incoporate...  I will create a new markdown doc in a new repo in ping space as a desintation for this text... (and 276)

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/278

Robin: we fixed this. **will close**

### 279

Nick: suggest assigning to Jeffrey. 
Dan: just about clarity of example, we think.

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/280

Pete: this has come up in WebGPU... I take the comment to say this is a good principle but not good examples... I agree.  Lines of code not useful.

Nick: a separate argument that making it expensive to get to... may not be useful because sometimes the attacker may be able to spend that cost.  but making attacks expensive is definitely still a benefit that we care about.

Dan: Happy to assign to Jeffrey - do we have other guidance for Jeffrey?

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/281

Nick: I think Martin is familiar with this - I think there is a distinction on granularity - however we should reference... 

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/282

Dan: Martin would like to include identifiers...  Feels right that we should include it... 

Dan: **will make PR**

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/283

Nick: where did this come from?

Wendy: the conversation was - it's low cost if the user can change their mind..

Nick: cases where information is like that?

Robin: something that's only valuable if it's live...?

Robin: I don't mind removing it.

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/284

Pete: I think we can remove the clause in both sections.

Nick: just k-anonymonity?

Pete: I'm not sure what's most notable about timing attacks ... or... 

**we agree to remove both**

### https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/285

Nick: there are lots of caveats -- but our section contains lots of caveats...

Robin: feedback isn't super clear... 

Pete: i think martin shares my concerns about anciallry data - we can point him to that issue...

Robin: I think that might make sense...

### We agree to merge #336

