# Privacy TF Call - Wed, 29 November 2023

Present: Dan, Don, Sam, Christine, Robin, Wendy, Jeffrey, Nick
Regrets: Amy, Pete

## [#369 Copy-edit the Common Concepts section, except for the Recognition sub-section.](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/369)

### Vegas Rule

Dan: it's cutesey

Don: the real world vegas has a lot of surveillance ... co-ownership of apparently independent hotels, cross-property data sharing agreements -- new web developers attending their 1st trade show in real Las Vegas might not get the reference to an idealized cool or historic Las Vegas

Christine: I also suspect it's a western idea... - US centric idea - can we do it without using that terminology?  I agree with Don.

Wendy: might make more sense for a presentation or educational overview, rather than in the detailed principles document

Nick: is there a better way to communicate the idea of separation of behavior in different place-like things? No strong feelings.

Robin: I can live with it - but for the record I think this is part of a trend to make this doc blander and less relatable.  In teaching this stuff it gets someone's attention... in my mind I think we should go more in that direction...

Jeffrey: I wil re-word...

### [GDPR](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/369/files#r1409521635)

*we agree to undo the change*

Robin: "for legal background on personal data consult xyz"

### [budget](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/369/files#r1402468424)

*considering Wendy's suggestion*

Dan: looks fine to me..

**provisionally we agree to land this, with Jeffrey's upcoming changes to the first section**

## Sending this to the TAG

Jeffrey: I suggest we send this to the TAG.

Robin: I agree.

**we agree we can send it to the TAG for review**

"We're asking the TAG to review this document as we will soon be asking you to publish this as a note on Statement track... The intention is to get AC approval for W3C Consensus as a W3C Statement.  Note that there will still be some editorial PRs pending but there are no substantial changes currently pending. Issues flagged as [Wide Review](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues?q=+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22wide+review%22+) are evidence that there has been wide review. Some of these issues are still open but most of those are deemed editorial in nature.

Issues 332 and 333 are both flagged as back burner, which means the task force has deemed that these can wait for a future revision.

In essence, we're asking the TAG to say 'the TAG stands behind the substance of this document' - especially the principles themselves.

Assuming the TAG achieves consensus that the substance of the document is good, we're asking the TAG to re-publish this as a draft note.  We acknowledge that there are some open issues - in particular, 335 through 378, that need to be addressed and closed.  The task force will continue to address these issues in the coming weeks with the intention to finalize any changes before the end of the year."

Nick: are we handing over change control? or asking for review, adoption, publication but task force continues to be responsible for working through remaining issues?

Dan: not handing over change control, but confirming consensus of the TAG
Jeffrey: which would mean agreement to publish as a Note

## [Issue-279](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/279)

Jeffrey: we still have a sentence which falls under this issue..   I think it's worth adding the example.


