# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 26 April 2023

Present: Dan, Jeffrey, Don, Wendy, Nick, Pete
Regrets: Sam

## privacy principles

Discussion on [3rd party cookie](https://w3ctag.github.io/web-without-3p-cookies/) finding and "design for purpose"

Nick: maybe this concept should go into the privacy principles doc itself...

## [People's Agents](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/255)

Jeffrey: U suspect we should go back to user agents.

Nick: agreed. "people" is generally a good direction, but "user agent" is just the clear term that we need to keep using.

Dan: I agree.

*Jeffrey to do a PR*

Jeffrey: on "principle" definition...  

*Jeffrey to do a PR*

## [Suggestions on Introduction](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/253)

Jeffrey: on point 1 I disagree - ... Mention of the whole web - emphasizes the world wide nature of the web...  

Dan: I'm ok to leave it alone.

Jeffrey: 2nd one I think is correct.

Dan: agree.

Jeffrey: [on point 3] yes I think hes' right I suggest we ask him to write the PR for the improvement...

## [collective governance](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/254)

Dan: I agree with his points.

Pete: if i understand his first para correctly - if it's not violating ...

Nick: I think it's already covered ... 3rd parties ... I think our current text covers it.

Don: with self-dealing ... around the question of noise that's introduced, in some cases where a user agent introduces noise, you need to have a certain scale in order to get reasonable signal... Issue in web-without-3rd-party-cookies...  If a privacy mitgation requires adding noise, an extremely widely used 3rd party could be able to get usable signal (and build user profiles)  ... If a 3rd party knows they operate at a given scale... then it's effectively self-dealing

https://github.com/w3ctag/web-without-3p-cookies/issues/2

Nick: I understand the concern but I don't think it's self-dealing... 

Jeffrey: I think it is self dealing. A browser could tune the browser so only they could extract the data... which would be bad.  I think it's too specific to say "in particular"...

Don: maybe we can just mention it in the self dealing section.. i can come up with some wording.

Jeffrey: I think it is but it's very specific... the people designing web standards can also self-deal.

Don: if you talk to end user - what comes up - when end users have privacy concerns they mention a few specific large companies. if we want this document to be relevant to privacy concerns users have we should say something about the scaling issue. 

Pete: I agree that the current text does it. but i agree with Don to make sure the concern is addressed.

Don: problem comes when you have standards discussed with knowledge of what's required to overcome certain levels of noise.

Wendy: that's across-temporal dealing that doesn't fit within neatly the discussion of self dealing... It's a possible problem but a separate problem. Suggest rejecting Chris's change.

Don: if not under self-dealing then where?  Happy to put it another area.... (new issue:
https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/261 )

Nick: I do think we should talk about centralization... i'd be fine to put it in the private ad document...

Dan: what in 254 are we saying yes to?

Wendy: removing the s from scales 

Jeffrey: more citations

## [PR on the EWP](https://github.com/w3ctag/ethical-web-principles/pull/93)

Jeffrey: just FYI ... 

Nick: this is a patch to the verify information...

## [Mention limitations on data rights](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/252)

Nick: my intial reaction -- we talk about this isn't absolute several other places in the document -- i don't know if we need to have that kind of caveat included in every subsequent principle... We could say "solutions could come into tension with other principles"?

Jeffrey: talking about "rights" tends to make them more important... general text says principles here conflict with other principles elsewhere... i don't know that we've written "the publuc have a right to know certain things"...

Pete: I like Nick's point - I think just having a caveat on the top of the doucment is more appealing..

Nick: in the principle we say these rights should be facilicated - that doesn't sound super absolute. 

Dan: we don't say "must be enforced".

Nick: UAs should facilitate erasing data.  that seems in line with what we want to ask...

Jeffrey: we're also writing a principle about the services... services should facilitate the use of these rights.

Dan: I'm leaning towards Nick's view that we already have enough caveats...

Pete: also it seems far ...

Jeffrey: Brad would be happy if we deleted statement about other actors...

Nick: I think to accomplish most of the privacy things we talk about - will require facilitation by other actors.

Jeffrey: i suspect we lose important things if we delete the other actors part.

"we think this worry is covered by the other limitations on the whole document"

Nick: e.g. 1.4 - is intented to apply to that section as well.. I don't think there needs to be a change but if so maybe something that says the rights section is not different from the other sections...

Jeffrey: we can ask...

Pete: i am kind of against adding negative statements into the doc...

