# TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 5 July 2023

Present: Dan, Jeffrey, Don, Nick, Christine, Amy
Regrets: Robin, Pete

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/290

Don: I think I addressed all of robin's comments .. should match up.

Nick: looks more in line...

Jeffrey: looks good. 

Dan: I'm good.

**agree to merge**

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/322

Nick: not sure if it's "just as much" - i think it is "also"

Don: users are not aware of corporate M&A news... Expecting people to read techcrunch to understand how their personal data is used..  is not reasonable.

Amy: that was in the original thing.

Nick: I think the re-ordering seems good.

Don: I'll make a note that we cover contexts and not companies or parties...

**noting robin approval**

**agree to commit suggestions and merge**

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/323

*need review*

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/324

**noting robin approval**

Amy: changed a principle to explanatory text - "seek to understand" - 

Nick: I think the reason we had it separate was that we wanted to affirmatively say "you shouldn't seek this out" - not just do something in alignment with goals... Problem we're coming up against here... everyone has their own view - we can say "yes you can go ask them". 

Amy: worthsmithed ... sentennce to try to address.  

Dan: If it can be colapsed into one principle then it could be a good thing at this point for simplicity.

Jeffrey: removes some text that pete liked so don't want to merge without Pete's eyes on it. Immediate goals... I want Pete to have the chance to look over it. 

Amy: will do another edit pass.

Nick: I'm ok with it...

*candidate for async merger based on reviews*

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/328

Nick: I think it's good consolodate... I think we should still have separate defintiions... 

Jeffrey: if we say abuse the folks who handle abuse of servers - may think it applies to them.

Amy: would a definition help?

Jeffrey: probably - people need to see it. We could title it "abuse of users"

Don: I like that. Abuse is overloaded.

Amy: I've thought of editing the titles to be more actionable.

Dan: totally agree with making things more actionable.

Amy: "protecting users"...

## https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/326

Amy: merge these sections maybe?  Sensitive info didn't have a principle.  I created one.  Seems an important principle - we come across it when doing TAG reviews as well... "actors should know that..."

NicK; if inn many reviews we're going to point this out... then it can be cited. Not sure if that makes it a principle...

Amy: because of this principle don't do this...

Jeeffrey: don't design features assuming that particular info is not sensitive

Amy: assuming some info is sensitive / not sensitive...

Don: you can't say in advance what data points are going to be picked up on as sensitive by  downstream actors

Nick: still not sure if this needs to be a principle.  

Amy: feel strongly this should be a principle...


