# Privacy TF Minutes - Wed, 1 Feb 2023

* Present: Jeffrey, Robin, Pete, Don, Nick, Wendy
* Regrets: Dan, Christine

## [PRs](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+sort%3Acreated-asc)

### [Discovery](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/219)

Nick: responding to an external reviewer, clarifying that right to access includes both the data and the actors who have data.

Jeffrey: any objections? hearing none, let's merge

Nick: original commenter also approved

### [Simplify and remove redundant text in the Identity section](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/218)

Jeffrey: this is mine. Read through identity section and shortened. Comments? Got through 2.1.2

Robin: we've reviewed recognition methods a few times

Pete: intended as clean-up or substantive change?

Jeffrey: meant to clean-up, but it departs from "only tighten partition boundaries" to refer to user context. e.g. if we think user understands google.com and googleusercontent.com as same context, it's ok to treat them as the same partition.

Pete: are there places where that doesn't turn on first-party sets?

Robin: 1p sets is a mechanism. I might disagree with mechanism but can agree with the understanding.

Pete: are there places where we're not talking about domain boundaries?

Jeffrey: maybe if a user logs in to the same site on two devices, and the site gives notice to combine. It's up to the UA to respect user's idea of context boundaries.

Don: appreciate context vs. site or domain. (A domain can have multiple contexts and a context can span domains)

Pete: maybe say more about what kinds of signals browser should use to know what's acceptable?

Jeffrey: Think that belongs in the threat model doc. We want UAs exploring how to do that

Pete: I'm concerned it might be empty set. Would be useful to have some idea what those signals could be

Nick: is another example sign-in scenarios? e.g. it looks as though user is trying to use login from one domain/site on another

Jeffrey: that's something password managers can do (not warning if you're using the same password across known-related domains), I don't know about browsers. Re sign-on, we're encouraging people to move toward FedCM

Pete: I'm not yet ready to approve this change, want to think about it more. Other changes look good.

Jeffrey: we won't merge if not consensus.

Nick: on another point, you had text that giving the same email address is not consent for merging. use of "identity" may be confusing with relation to our definition in the doc.

Jeffrey: I've been using "presentation of self/attributes".

Nick: We might want to say user doesn't intend to be recognized, not just whether or not they have the same identity.

Jeffrey: tried to say both. Any suggestions?

Pete: I'll take a look. Anything else you want eyes on?


### [Revisions and concisions around ancillary data use](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/216)

Pete: Sam's first change seems good.

Nick: wishes?

Jeffrey: we use "intends" in may other places?

Pete: change user's wishes and interests to user's intent

Don: +1 to intent. (If you were a Mentat doing web standards in your head, would you do this or skip it?)

Jeffrey: want to be clear that we're not banning performance measurement.

Don: I'd rather have telemetry be at the fuzzy boundary than surveillance marketing, rather than telemetry clearly allowed and surveillance potentially so.

Pete: we should make sure user wants to participate in telemetry before it's enabled.

Jeffrey: we wouldn't go against a user's request not to perform telemetry, but do we make all users go through the privacy labor of thinking whether they agree a site may record performance?

Pete: I also made a recommendation to remove the concept of privacy labor; I recognize we disagree.

Nick: try to write toward what we agree, more than malicious interpretations. Though we had something elsewhere re duty of loyalty, which can accommodate UA doing something it thinks is in user's interest

Robin: that can align with what you do in picking a UA: as with a broker, you pick one that you believe aligns with your interests, even as all are bound to be loyal

Jeffrey: trying in this document to lay the groundwork for future arguments. Want to include "users' interests" as one of those points.

Pete: want us to be more cautious about inferring user's interests. "immediate intent"

Don: UA does what user would do if they had enough time

Pete: If I were a different person, I'd do a different thing

Pete: I'm ok with intents and interests

Pete: removed a list of examples of ancillary uses, as they seemed like invitaiton to confusion on their purpose. (not endorsements)

Nick: we need some guidance for readers, either examples or definition

Jeffrey: add some we hate, to make clear they're not all permitted?

Pete: if we add toxic uses, we should label them

Robin: ancillary opposition of essential or necessary, but that's hard to define too. Look at EDPD. more grey areas around intent: load balance, ddos mitigation

Nick: that was original intent: ancillary is outside what's necessary to load and display the page

Jeffrey: we're not trying to forbid, as regulators are, but to introduce considerations

Pete: +1 to remove the list and reintroduce definition (as Nick pointed out in previous paragraph)

Nick: examples can be helpful

Jeffrey: maybe include a few that are generally agreed to be beneficial

Pete: thanks, helpful conversation. I'll revise

## AOB

Robin: I made a list of [suggestions](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/217) for wide-review outreach. Please add or comment.
