# TAG Privacy TF Call - Wed, 12 July 2023

Present: Dan, Jeffrey, Pete, Robin, Wendy, Tess, Sam, Wendy, Don, Nick
Regrets: Christine, Amy

## [302 edit identity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/323)

Jeffrey: not sure it makes sense to put recognition in the Common Concepts but makes sense to mvoe it out of the main body of the text so don't object.

Jeffrey: big thing is avoiding partitions... we don't want to make people click through a def...  wishes/when necessary 

*we wordsmith...*

Jeffrey: on [this](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/323/files#r1255053743) we shouldn't block this PR but we should look at it again. 

Robin: feels like automated to just say implemented...

*issue raised*

**we agree to merge**

## [Editorial: data minimization, fixes #303.](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/324)

Pete: I left a comment - passive voice as confusing...   also broader question - this splits types of data into data that achieves goals vs fwds peoples' interests.. 

*discussion of goals vs interests and being more specific about what we're talking about*

Pete: we can merge this and have the larger discussion about data collection with a future PR (from Yoav and Jeffrey will work on).

Nick: concerned about merging these into one principle...

**bumped to next week**

## [Editorial: Information Access, fixes #304](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/325)

*appropriate vs acceptable*

Jeffrey: we shouldn't use *appropriate* here...

Nick: agree - appropriate has a special meaning in this context.

Wendy: condensing for readability may have lost some particularity... 

Jeffrey: my last suggested workding 

**we agree we also need to bump**

## [Editorial for Sensitive Information and Vulnerability](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/326)

*discussing [comment](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/326/files#r1260848895)*

Tess: this puts onus on implementers...

Robin: it should go back to the stanfards...

Pete: standard should be ... made to offer better degredation...

Tess: standard is just a piece of paper.. 

Pete: spec author should design so code flows can work the same way ... e.g. use an async instead of sync api

Jeffrey: onus is on the API design and site... default to degrade gracefully... sites can detect - we should be telling them not to do that.

Tess: we should take a new change that clarifies that.

Don: spec should facilitate a responsible UA protecteding the UA from sites - also responsible site protecting the user from violations by the UA

Robin: we should do it in reverse order from the prioritty of constituencies... theoretical purity, spec designes, site authors... should ...  Some sites will break on purpose.... Ideall this should be handled by the standard but sometimes it's not possible....

*we agree we need to revisit with Robin's new suggseted wording*

## [Editorial: Device Owners and Administrators, fixes #309.](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/327)

Tess: ...guardians and wards... easy for a user to miss the link... It would help if that were brought forward in the section...

Dan: colapses 2 into 1

Jeffrey: in this case they are roughly the same thing...



## [Harrasment, for #310 and #311](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/328)

Nick left comments on the PR.


## transparency

https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/288

additional promises to review the proposed transparency principles.
