# W3C TAG Privacy TF - Wed, 31 January 2024

Present: Don, Pete, Dan, Robin, Nick, Wendy, Amy

Regrets: Jeffrey

## FYI on privacy-related changes to the design principles from last week's TAG F2F

Nick: how to decide when to include a privacy principle in the design principles?
Dan: some seem particularly fundamental, and so use those in an abbreviated form in the design principles, with references to longer text in privacy principles document.

every-other week TAG plenary calls, which will alternate with privacy taskforce calls.

### [Data minimization](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/465)

https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/#data-minimization

Link to privacy principles from design principles. "Minimize user data", and picked font enumeration api as an example where data minimization came up with a different solution. Also links to "personal data" definition in privacy principles.

Pete: Tess article about how to introduce data to a web page ... (group is unclear on where exactly that was.)

Pete: data minimization is also already in the design principles, in device enumeration.

### [identity](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/396)

PR from Amy, still working/reviewing.

### [devices etc..](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/470)

Dan: use care when exposing identifying information about devices, don't distinguish between not having the capability and the user rejecting it.

Don: a lot of web developers already know which devices have which sensors. maybe just say 'don't design for a specific device' (or avoid collecting any info on what device the user is using?)

Dan: there are concepts about progressive enhancement, like feature detection, or supporting all devices

## [edit to privacy principles data minimization](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/399)

Just removed repeated text, that Dan noted while working on design principles/minimization.

Nick and wseltzer: +1 

**merged**

## next steps

Dan to email AC before end of the week. hope to get some good feedback.

